Machine Learning, Manufacturing

The Bank Marketing dataset belongs to the "classification on numerical features" benchmark.

This dataset is related to direct marketing campaigns of a Portuguese banking institution. The marketing campaigns were based on phone calls. Often, more than one contact to the same client was required, in order to assess whether the product, a bank term deposit, would be or not subscribed.

The classification goal is to predict whether the client will subscribe a term deposit, which is the desired target.

Attribute Information

The input variables include:

* Bank Client Data:
	+ Age, a numeric value representing the client's age.
	+ Job, a categorical value representing the type of job, which can be administrative, unknown, unemployed, management, housemaid, entrepreneur, student, blue collar, self employed, retired, technician, or services.
	+ Marital Status, a categorical value representing the client's marital status, which can be married, divorced, or single.
	+ Education, a categorical value representing the client's level of education, which can be unknown, secondary, primary, or tertiary.
	+ Default, a binary value indicating whether the client has credit in default, yes or no.
	+ Balance, a numeric value representing the average yearly balance in euros.
	+ Housing, a binary value indicating whether the client has a housing loan, yes or no.
	+ Loan, a binary value indicating whether the client has a personal loan, yes or no.

* Related to the Last Contact of the Current Campaign:
	+ Contact, a categorical value representing the contact communication type, which can be unknown, telephone, or cellular.
	+ Day, a numeric value representing the last contact day of the month.
	+ Month, a categorical value representing the last contact month of the year, which can be January, February, March, and so on until November and December.
	+ Duration, a numeric value representing the last contact duration in seconds.

* Other Attributes:
	+ Campaign, a numeric value representing the number of contacts performed during this campaign and for this client, including the last contact.
	+ Pdays, a numeric value representing the number of days that passed by after the client was last contacted from a previous campaign, where -1 means the client was not previously contacted.
	+ Previous, a numeric value representing the number of contacts performed before this campaign and for this client.
	+ Poutcome, a categorical value representing the outcome of the previous marketing campaign, which can be unknown, other, failure, or success.

Output Variable:
The desired target is whether the client has subscribed a term deposit, a binary value indicating yes or no.

Keywords: Bank Marketing, Direct Marketing, Term Deposit, Classification, Numerical Features, Portuguese Banking Institution.