Advanced Micro Devices Historical Stock Prices Data 

Tags: Machine Learning, Mathematics 

Context 
Advanced Micro Devices Incorporated operates as a global semiconductor company. The company operates in two primary segments: Computing and Graphics, and Enterprise, Embedded and Semi Custom. Its diverse range of products includes central processing units, accelerated processing units, chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units, data center and professional graphics processing units, and development services. Additionally, the company provides server and embedded processors, semi custom system on chip products, development services, and technology specifically designed for game consoles.

The company supplies central processing units for desktop personal computers under various brand names, including AMD Ryzen, AMD Ryzen PRO, Ryzen, Threadripper, AMD A Series, AMD FX, AMD Athlon, AMD Athlon PRO, and AMD Pro A Series processors. Furthermore, it offers central processing units for notebooks and two in one devices under AMD Ryzen processors with Radeon Vega graphics processing units, AMD A Series, AMD Athlon, AMD Ryzen PRO, and AMD Pro A Series processors brand names. The company also supplies central processing units for servers under the AMD EPYC and AMD Opteron brand names, and chipsets under the AMD trademark.

Moreover, Advanced Micro Devices Incorporated offers discrete graphics processing units for desktop and notebook personal computers under the AMD Radeon graphics and AMD Embedded Radeon brand names. It also provides professional graphics products under the AMD Radeon Pro and AMD FirePro graphics brand names, and Radeon Instinct accelerators specifically designed for servers. In addition, the company provides embedded processor solutions for interactive digital signage, casino gaming, and medical imaging under various brand names, including AMD Opteron, AMD Athlon, AMD Geode, AMD Ryzen, AMD EPYC, AMD R Series, and G Series processors. Moreover, it offers customer specific solutions based on AMD central processing unit, graphics processing unit, and multimedia technologies, as well as semi custom system on chip products.

The company serves original equipment and design manufacturers, data centers, original design manufacturers, system integrators, independent distributors, online retailers, and add in board manufacturers through its direct sales force, independent distributors, and sales representatives.

What's inside this dataset is more than just rows and columns. To facilitate ease of use, this description outlines how the data was acquired and the time period it represents.

This historical stock prices data was collected utilizing a single line of code via Yahoo Finance and the YFinance library. The data set consists of historical stock prices of Advanced Micro Devices Incorporated, covering various aspects, including date, open, high, low, close, adjusted close, and volume.

Keywords: Advanced Micro Devices, Semiconductor, Central Processing Units, Graphics Processing Units, Historical Stock Prices, Machine Learning, Mathematics