Pulsar Dataset HTRU2 
Tags: Chemistry, Life Science 

Pulsar candidates collected during the High Time Resolution Universe Survey are of considerable scientific interest. Candidates must be classified into pulsar and non-pulsar classes to aid discovery.

HTRU2 is a dataset that describes a sample of pulsar candidates collected during the High Time Resolution Universe Survey. Pulsars are a rare type of neutron star that produce radio emission detectable on Earth. They are of considerable scientific interest as probes of space-time, the interstellar medium, and states of matter. As pulsars rotate, their emission beam sweeps across the sky, and when this crosses our line of sight, produces a detectable pattern of broadband radio emission. As pulsars rotate rapidly, this pattern repeats periodically. Thus, pulsar search involves looking for periodic radio signals with large radio telescopes.

Each pulsar produces a slightly different emission pattern, which varies slightly with each rotation. Thus, a potential signal detection known as a candidate is averaged over many rotations of the pulsar, as determined by the length of an observation. In the absence of additional information, each candidate could potentially describe a real pulsar. However, in practice, almost all detections are caused by radio frequency interference and noise, making legitimate signals hard to find.

Machine learning tools are now being used to automatically label pulsar candidates to facilitate rapid analysis. Classification systems, in particular, are being widely adopted, which treat the candidate datasets as binary classification problems. Here, the legitimate pulsar examples are a minority positive class, and spurious examples the majority negative class.

At present, multi-class labels are unavailable, given the costs associated with data annotation. The dataset shared here contains spurious examples caused by radio frequency interference and noise, and real pulsar examples. These examples have all been checked by human annotators.

The data is presented in two formats: comma-separated values and attribute-relation file format used by the Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis data mining tool. Candidates are stored in both files in separate rows. Each row lists the variables first, and the class label is the final entry. The class labels used are zero for negative and one for positive.

Please note that the data contains no positional information or other astronomical details. It is simply feature data extracted from candidate files using the Pulsar Feature Laboratory tool.

Attribute Information:

Each candidate is described by eight continuous variables and a single class variable. The first four are simple statistics obtained from the integrated pulse profile, which is an array of continuous variables that describe a longitude-resolved version of the signal that has been averaged in both time and frequency. The remaining four variables are similarly obtained from the dispersion measure-signal-to-noise ratio curve.

Dataset Summary:
Total Examples.
Positive Examples.
Negative Examples.

Keywords: Pulsar, Neutron Star, Radio Emission, Space-Time, Interstellar Medium, States of Matter, Machine Learning, Binary Classification, Radio Frequency Interference, Noise.