Vehicle Tags: Partial Label Ranking

The purpose of this dataset is to classify a given silhouette as one of four types of vehicle, using a set of features extracted from the silhouette. The vehicle may be viewed from one of many different angles.

The dataset was originally gathered to find a method of distinguishing three-dimensional objects within a two-dimensional image by application of an ensemble of shape feature extractors to the two-dimensional silhouettes of the objects. Measures of shape features extracted from example silhouettes of objects to be discriminated were used to generate a classification rule tree by means of computer induction. This object recognition strategy was successfully used to discriminate between silhouettes of model cars, vans, and buses viewed from constrained elevation but all angles of rotation.

The features were extracted from the silhouettes by the Hierarchical Image Processing System extension, which extracts a combination of scale-independent features utilizing both classical moments-based measures such as scaled variance, skewness, and kurtosis about the major and minor axes, and heuristic measures such as compactness, circularity, rectangularity, and hollows.

Four model vehicles were used for the experiment: a double-decker bus, a Chevrolet van, a Saab, and an Opel Manta. This particular combination of vehicles was chosen with the expectation that the bus, van, and either one of the cars would be readily distinguishable, but it would be more difficult to distinguish between the cars.

The images were acquired by a camera looking downwards at the model vehicle from a fixed angle of elevation. The vehicles were placed on a diffuse backlit surface, and the vehicles were painted matte black to minimize highlights. The images were captured using a framestore connected to a computer. All images were captured with a spatial resolution of pixels quantized to greylevels. These images were thresholded to produce binary vehicle silhouettes, negated, and thereafter subjected to shrink-expand-expand-shrink modules to remove image noise.

The vehicles were rotated, and their angle of orientation was measured using a radial graticule beneath the vehicle. The vehicles were rotated by a fixed angle between images. Two sets of images, each set covering a full rotation, were captured for each vehicle.

The dataset has no missing values.

The attributes include compactness, circularity, distance circularity, radius ratio, principal axis aspect ratio, maximum length aspect ratio, scatter ratio, elongatedness, principal axis rectangularity, maximum length rectangularity, scaled variance along major axis, scaled variance along minor axis, scaled radius of gyration, skewness about major axis, skewness about minor axis, kurtosis about major axis, kurtosis about minor axis, and hollows ratio.

The dataset has four classes: Opel, Saab, Bus, and Van.

Keywords: vehicle classification, silhouette recognition, shape feature extraction, object recognition, image processing.