Default of Credit Card Clients

Tags: Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "classification on both numerical and categorical features" benchmark.

Original link: https://openml.org/d/42477

Original description:

This research aimed at the case of customers' default payments in Taiwan and compares the predictive accuracy of probability of default among six data mining methods. From the perspective of risk management, the result of predictive accuracy of the estimated probability of default will be more valuable than the binary result of classification - credible or not credible clients. Because the real probability of default is unknown, this study presented the novel Sorting Smoothing Method to estimate the real probability of default. With the real probability of default as the response variable, and the predictive probability of default as the independent variable, the simple linear regression result shows that the forecasting model produced by artificial neural network has the highest coefficient of determination; its regression intercept is close to zero, and regression coefficient to one. Therefore, among the six data mining techniques, artificial neural network is the only one that can accurately estimate the real probability of default.

Data Set Information:

This research employed a binary variable, default payment, as the response variable. This study reviewed the literature and used the following variables as explanatory variables: amount of the given credit, gender, education, marital status, age, history of past payment, amount of bill statement, and amount of previous payment.

Attribute Information:

This research employed a binary variable, default payment, as the response variable. The explanatory variables include amount of the given credit, which includes both the individual consumer credit and his or her family supplementary credit. Gender is categorized as male or female. Education is categorized as graduate school, university, high school, or others. Marital status is categorized as married, single, or others. Age is measured in years. History of past payment is tracked from April to September, with the measurement scale being pay duly, payment delay for one month, payment delay for two months, and so on. Amount of bill statement and amount of previous payment are measured in NT dollars.

Keywords: credit card clients, default payments, data mining, predictive accuracy, probability of default, risk management.