Census-Income Dataset 
Tags: Geography, Life Science 

This dataset contains weighted census data extracted from the Current Population Surveys conducted by the United States Census Bureau. The data includes forty-one demographic and employment-related variables. The instance weight indicates the number of people in the population that each record represents due to stratified sampling. To perform real analysis and derive meaningful conclusions, this field must be utilized. However, this attribute should not be used in the classifiers.

The dataset consists of one instance per line with comma-delimited fields. The data was split into training and testing sets in approximately two-thirds and one-third proportions using MineSet's MindUtil mineset-to-mlc.

Attribute Information:
More information detailing the meaning of the attributes can be found in the Census Bureau's documentation. To make use of the data descriptions, the following mappings to the Census Bureau's internal database column names will be necessary:

Age, Class of Worker, Industry Code, Occupation Code, Adjusted Gross Income, Education, Wage Per Hour, Enrolled in Education Institution Last Week, Marital Status, Major Industry Code, Major Occupation Code, Race, Hispanic Origin, Sex, Member of Labor Union, Reason for Unemployment, Full or Part-Time Employment Status, Capital Gains, Capital Losses, Dividends from Stocks, Federal Income Tax Liability, Tax Filer Status, Region of Previous Residence, State of Previous Residence, Detailed Household and Family Statistics, Instance Weight, Migration Code-Change in Metropolitan Statistical Area, Migration Code-Change in Region, Migration Code-Move Within Region, Live in This House One Year Ago, Migration Previous Residence in Sunbelt, Number of Persons Worked for Employer, Family Members Under Eighteen, Total Person Earnings, Country of Birth Father, Country of Birth Mother, Country of Birth Self, Citizenship, Total Person Income, Own Business or Self-Employed, Taxable Income Amount, Fill Income Questionnaire for Veteran's Administration, Veterans Benefits, Weeks Worked in Year.

Note that incomes have been binned at the fifty-thousand-dollar level to present a binary classification problem, similar to the original Adult database. However, the goal field of this data was drawn from the total person income field rather than the adjusted gross income field and may behave differently than the original Adult goal field.

Relevant papers are not available for this dataset.

Keywords: census data, demographics, employment, income, classification, geography, life science