Customer Relationship Management is a key element of modern marketing strategies. The KDD Cup offers the opportunity to work on large marketing databases from the French Telecom company Orange to predict the propensity of customers to switch provider, buy new products or services, or buy upgrades or add-ons proposed to them to make the sale more profitable.

The most practical way, in a Customer Relationship Management system, to build knowledge on customer is to produce scores. A score is an evaluation for all instances of a target variable to explain, for example, whether a customer is likely to switch provider, buy new products or services, or buy upgrades or add-ons. Tools that produce scores allow projecting quantifiable information on a given population. The score is computed using input variables that describe instances. Scores are then used by the Information System, for example, to personalize the customer relationship.

An industrial customer analysis platform able to build prediction models with a very large number of input variables has been developed by Orange Labs. This platform implements several processing methods for instances and variables selection, prediction, and indexation based on an efficient model combined with variable selection regularization and model averaging method. The main characteristic of this platform is its ability to scale on very large datasets with hundreds of thousands of instances and thousands of variables.

The rapid and robust detection of the variables that have most contributed to the output prediction can be a key factor in a marketing application. The challenge is to beat the in-house system developed by Orange Labs. It is an opportunity to prove that you can deal with a very large database, including heterogeneous noisy data and unbalanced class distributions. Time efficiency is often a crucial point. Therefore, part of the competition will be time-constrained to test the ability of the participants to deliver solutions quickly.

The task is to estimate the churn probability, appetency, and up-selling probability of customers, hence there are three target values to be predicted. The challenge is staged in phases to test the rapidity with which each team is able to produce results. A large number of variables is made available for prediction. However, to engage participants having access to less computing power, a smaller version of the dataset will be made available in the second part of the challenge.

Churn rate is also sometimes called attrition rate. It is one of two primary factors that determine the steady-state level of customers a business will support. In its broadest sense, churn rate is a measure of the number of individuals or items moving into or out of a collection over a specific period of time. The term is used in many contexts, but is most widely applied in business with respect to a contractual customer base. For instance, it is an important factor for any business with a subscriber-based service model, including mobile telephone networks and pay TV operators.

In our context, appetency is the propensity to buy a service or a product. Up-selling is a sales technique whereby a salesman attempts to have the customer purchase more expensive items, upgrades, or other add-ons in an attempt to make a more profitable sale. Up-selling usually involves marketing more profitable services or products, but up-selling can also be simply exposing the customer to other options they may not have considered previously. Up-selling can imply selling something additional, or selling something that is more profitable or otherwise preferable for the seller instead of the original sale.

Keywords: Customer Relationship Management, Marketing Strategies, Predictive Modeling, Churn Rate, Appetency, Up-Selling, Data Analysis, Information System.