Al Hilal Archive Scores
Tags: Context

As Al Hilal football club is one of the most successful football clubs in Saudi Arabia, the Middle East, and Asia, this dataset was an exercise in web scraping where I collected the archive of the results for the club. The dataset includes all matches from the late twentieth century to the present day and many important matches from the early years of the club's history. The source where the data has been scraped from is Koora website, which is one of the oldest Arabic websites that specialize in football news and matches scores.

Content

The dataset includes a home team column, which contains the team that hosts the match, the away team who came to play against the home team, and between them, the score of the match. After that, the date where the game has been played is recorded, then the winning team from the match. The column before the last contains the competition which the game has been a part of, and the last column is the stage of the competition of the game. In the home and away columns, when the game is played in a local competition, the name of the team is written without the name of the country, but when the game is played in an international competition, the name of the team is followed by the country of the team, as there could be teams that have the same name but from different countries. All columns are object type except the date column, which is datetime type. The dataset contains no null values except the stage column, as the null value means that the match didn't have a stage, such as friendly matches, or the stage is not provided by the website.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to the immersive data science course, which taught many skills and methods, one of which is web scraping that was used in this project.

Inspiration

Which years are the most successful for Al Hilal? Which leagues did the club score the highest points in? What are the clubs that Al Hilal won against the most, and what are the teams that defeated Al Hilal through the years? Could there be a model to predict the result of future matches for Al Hilal? Which months does Al Hilal win in the most, and which months does Al Hilal lose in? And many explorations that can be done.

Features:
Home Team, Scores, Away Team, Date, Winning Team, Competition, Stage

Keywords: Al Hilal, Football, Web Scraping, Match Results, Saudi Arabia, Middle East, Asia