The QSAR-TID-87 dataset is a collection of QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on the drug target Cannabinoid CB1 receptor. This dataset contains 4160 rows and 1026 features, including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

This dataset was part of the MetaQSAR project, published in September 2015.

The Cannabinoid CB1 receptor is a single protein preferred name, also known as Cannabinoid receptor 1, CB1, CB-R, CNR. It belongs to the species group Homo sapiens and is classified as a 1. Membrane receptor/Family A G protein-coupled receptor/Small molecule receptor (family A GPCR)/Lipid-like ligand receptor (family A GPCR)/Cannabinoid receptor.

The dataset is related to various other datasets, including CHEMBL2096981, CHEMBL3301387, and CHEMBL3885538, which are supersets of the Cannabinoid receptor protein family, Cannabinoid CB1 receptor/orexin receptor 1 complex, and Cannabinoid receptor 1/Mu-type opioid receptor, respectively.

Several molecules have been identified as interacting with the Cannabinoid CB1 receptor, including NIMACIMAB, an antibody that acts as a negative allosteric modulator; NABILONE, a small molecule that acts as an agonist; SURINABANT, a small molecule that acts as an antagonist; DRINABANT, a small molecule that acts as an antagonist; and CANNABIDIOL, a small molecule that acts as a negative allosteric modulator.

The Cannabinoid CB1 receptor is involved in various biological processes, including signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-modulating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, spermatogenesis, axonal fasciculation, response to nutrient, learning or memory, memory, positive regulation of neuron projection development, negative regulation of serotonin secretion, regulation of lipid metabolic process, regulation of metabolic process, positive regulation of fever generation, negative regulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation, regulation of synaptic transmission, GABAergic, response to lipopolysaccharide, negative regulation of mast cell activation, negative regulation of dopamine secretion, response to nicotine, cannabinoid signaling pathway, response to cocaine, glucose homeostasis, positive regulation of apoptotic process, negative regulation of monoatomic ion transport, response to ethanol, negative regulation of action potential, negative regulation of blood pressure, positive regulation of blood pressure, regulation of insulin secretion, response to stimulus, negative regulation of nitric-oxide synthase activity, regulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic, maternal process involved in female pregnancy, regulation of feeding behavior, regulation of penile erection, retrograde trans-synaptic signaling by endocannabinoid, regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration, trans-synaptic signaling by endocannabinoid, modulating synaptic transmission.

Keywords: QSAR, Cannabinoid CB1 receptor, molecular fingerprints, G protein-coupled receptor, signal transduction, lipid metabolism, synaptic transmission.