QSAR-TID-12186 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 12186. The dataset has twenty-two rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Subtilisin/Kexin Type Six, also known as Paired Basic Amino Acid Cleaving Enzyme Four, Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type Six, and SPC Four. This enzyme is a single protein and is classified as a serine protease, belonging to the SB clan and S8B subfamily.

The enzyme is involved in various biological processes, including proteolysis, zygotic determination of anterior/posterior axis, determination of left/right symmetry, glycoprotein metabolic process, protein processing, peptide hormone processing, regulation of BMP signaling pathway, nerve growth factor production, secretion by cell, and regulation of catalytic activity. It is also involved in the regulation of lipoprotein lipase activity.

The enzyme is located in the extracellular region, extracellular space, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi lumen, plasma membrane, cell surface, and endomembrane system. It has various molecular functions, including endopeptidase activity, serine-type endopeptidase activity, protein binding, heparin binding, peptidase activity, serine-type peptidase activity, hydrolase activity, and nerve growth factor binding.

Keywords: QSAR, Subtilisin/Kexin Type Six, Paired Basic Amino Acid Cleaving Enzyme Four, Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type Six, SPC Four, serine protease, proteolysis, glycoprotein metabolic process, protein processing, peptide hormone processing.