Municipal Debt Risk Analysis
Tags: Context

This data has been extracted from the billing systems of municipalities in South Africa over a period of time and summarized according to their total amount billed versus the total amount paid. For each account, there is an indicator of whether that account resulted in a Bad Debt. This is a classification exercise with the aim of finding out whether it is feasible to determine the probability of an account becoming a Bad Debt so that it will be possible to forecast the number and value of accounts that are at risk of developing into a Bad Debt.

The data includes information about the account category, property value, property size, total billing, average billing, total receipting, average receipting, total debt, total write-off, collection ratio, debt billing ratio, total electricity bill, and whether the consumer has an ID number. The account category is a classification of the type of account, and the property value and size are the market value and size of the property, respectively. The total billing and average billing are the total amount billed to the account for all services and the average amount billed to the account for all services, respectively. The total receipting and average receipting are the total amount receipted to the account for all services and the average amount receipted to the account for all services, respectively. The total debt is the total debt that is at ninety days or more, and the total write-off is the total amount of debt that has been written off. The collection ratio is the ratio between the total receipting and total billing, and the debt billing ratio is the ratio between the total debt and total billing. The total electricity bill is the total amount billed for electricity, which is used as a means to recover debt. The ID number is a unique identifier for the consumer, which is similar to a social security number in the US and can be useful in legal proceedings.

The goal of this analysis is to determine whether it is possible to predict the probability of an account becoming a Bad Debt, which would enable forecasting the number and value of accounts that are at risk of developing into a Bad Debt.

Keywords: municipal debt, risk analysis, bad debt, forecasting, classification