Country Socioeconomic Status Scores Part II 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

This dataset contains estimates of the socioeconomic status position of each of one hundred forty-nine countries covering the period eighteen eighty to two thousand ten. Measures of socioeconomic status, which are in decades, allow for a one hundred thirty-year time-series analysis of the changing position of countries in the global status hierarchy. Socioeconomic status scores are the average of each country's income and education ranking and are reported as percentile rankings ranging from one to ninety-nine. As such, they can be interpreted similarly to other percentile rankings, such as high school standardized test scores. If country A has a socioeconomic status score of fifty-five, for example, it indicates that fifty-five percent of the countries in this dataset have a lower average income and education ranking than country A.

ISO alpha and numeric country codes are included to allow users to merge these data with other variables, such as those found in the World Bank's World Development Indicators Database and the United Nations Common Database. This dataset provides a unique opportunity to explore how the world came to look the way it does, at least in terms of the status position of countries over time.

Variable Descriptions:

Country Code is the ISO numeric country code used by the United Nations.
World Bank ID is the ISO alpha country code used by the World Bank.
Socioeconomic Status Score is the country socioeconomic status score, which is a percentile ranking based on GDP per capita and educational attainment.
Country Name is the short country name.
Survey Year is the survey year.
GDP Per Capita is the single time-series imputed GDP per capita data.
Years of Education is the completed years of education in the adult fifteen plus population.
Region Five Category is the five-category regional coding schema.
United Nations Region is the United Nations regional coding schema.

Data Sources:
The dataset was compiled from a large number of data sources, including historical statistics, development indicators databases, and journals of human capital and economic growth.

Keywords: socioeconomic status, country rankings, global status hierarchy, GDP per capita, educational attainment, regional coding schema.