QSAR-TID-10649 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10649. The dataset has fourteen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10649. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. The dataset has fourteen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

The Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M3 is a single protein, also known as Chrm3, Chrm-3, Mm3, mAChR, and Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M3. It is a membrane receptor, belonging to the family A G protein-coupled receptor, and is classified as a small molecule receptor. The receptor is involved in various biological processes, including regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle contraction, negative regulation of heart rate by acetylcholine, smooth muscle contraction, signal transduction, and G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway.

The receptor is expressed in various tissues, including the endoplasmic reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum membrane, plasma membrane, basal plasma membrane, membrane, basolateral plasma membrane, dendrite, asymmetric synapse, presynaptic membrane, axon terminus, synapse, postsynaptic membrane, and postsynaptic density membrane.

Keywords: Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M3, QSAR data, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, smooth muscle contraction, signal transduction.