Blocks 

Tags: Life Science, Medicine, Partial Label Ranking 

Features: 
Height of the Block 
Length of the Block 
Area of the Block 
Eccentricity of the Block 
Percentage of Black Pixels within the Block 
Percentage of Black Pixels after the Application of the Run Length Smoothing Algorithm 
Mean Number of White-Black Transitions 
Total Number of Black Pixels in the Original Bitmap of the Block 
Total Number of Black Pixels in the Bitmap of the Block after the Run Length Smoothing Algorithm 
Number of White-Black Transitions in the Original Bitmap of the Block 

Scraped Data: 
Dataset Information 
Additional Information 
The data set consists of observations, each concerning one block extracted from fifty-four distinct documents. All attributes are numeric and presented in a format readable by C4.5. This dataset does not have any missing values.

Additional Variable Information 
The height of the block is an integer value representing the block's height. 
The length of the block is an integer value representing the block's length. 
The area of the block is an integer value calculated by multiplying the height and length of the block. 
The eccentricity of the block is a continuous value representing the ratio of the length to the height of the block. 
The percentage of black pixels within the block is a continuous value calculated by dividing the total number of black pixels by the area of the block. 
The percentage of black pixels after the application of the run length smoothing algorithm is a continuous value calculated by dividing the total number of black pixels after the algorithm by the area of the block. 
The mean number of white-black transitions is a continuous value calculated by dividing the total number of black pixels by the number of white-black transitions. 
The total number of black pixels in the original bitmap of the block is an integer value. 
The total number of black pixels in the bitmap of the block after the run length smoothing algorithm is an integer value. 
The number of white-black transitions in the original bitmap of the block is an integer value.

Class Labels 
Text 
Horizontal Line 
Graphic 
Vertical Line 
Picture 

Keywords: Blocks, Life Science, Medicine, Partial Label Ranking, Run Length Smoothing Algorithm, Bitmap, White-Black Transitions, Pixel.