Monks Problems Two 

Once upon a time, in July nineteen ninety-one, the monks of Corsendonk Priory were faced with a school held in their priory, namely the Second European Summer School on Machine Learning. After listening for more than one week to a wide variety of learning algorithms, they felt rather confused: which algorithm would be optimal? And which one to avoid? As a consequence of this dilemma, they created a simple task on which all learning algorithms ought to be compared: the three Monks Problems.

The target concept associated with the second Monks problem is the binary outcome of the logical formula: exactly two of the attributes are equal to one.

In this dataset, the original train and test sets were merged to allow other sampling procedures. However, the original train-test splits can be found as one of the Open ML tasks.

Attribute information:

* attribute one: one, two, three
* attribute two: one, two, three
* attribute three: one, two
* attribute four: one, two, three
* attribute five: one, two, three, four
* attribute six: one, two

Relevant Papers 

The Monks Problems - A Performance Comparison of Different Learning Algorithms.

Features: class, attribute one, attribute two, attribute three, attribute four, attribute five, attribute six

Dataset Information 

Additional Information 

The Monks problems were the basis of a first international comparison of learning algorithms. The result of this comparison is summarized in a technical report. One significant characteristic of this comparison is that it was performed by a collection of researchers, each of whom was an advocate of the technique they tested. In this sense, the results are less biased than in comparisons performed by a single person advocating a specific learning method, and more accurately reflect the generalization behavior of the learning techniques as applied by knowledgeable users.

There are three Monks problems. The domains for all Monks problems are the same. One of the Monks problems has noise added. For each problem, the domain has been partitioned into a train and test set.

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information 

One. Class: zero, one 
Two. Attribute one: one, two, three 
Three. Attribute two: one, two, three 
Four. Attribute three: one, two 
Five. Attribute four: one, two, three 
Six. Attribute five: one, two, three, four 
Seven. Attribute six: one, two 
Eight. Identification: a unique symbol for each instance

Keywords: machine learning, artificial intelligence, Monks problems, performance comparison, learning algorithms, classification, datasets.