This is a supervised learning challenge in machine learning where we provide thirty datasets, all preformatted in given feature representations, meaning each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients. The challenge is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention. The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, various metrics of evaluation, and various proportions of the number of features and the number of examples.

The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, including medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, and action recognition in video data. Although there exist machine learning toolkits that include methods capable of solving all these problems, it still requires considerable human effort to find, for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time, the combination of methods and hyperparameter settings that is best suited.

Your challenge is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the human in the loop. This is a challenge with code submission, where your code will be executed automatically on our servers to train and test your learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, as half of the prizes can be won by simply submitting prediction results.

There are multiple rounds of increasing difficulty, where datasets of progressive difficulty are introduced. You do not need to participate in previous rounds to enter a new round. The rounds alternate between automatic machine learning phases, where submitted code is blind-tested in limited time on our platform using datasets you have never seen before, and tweakathon phases, which give you time to improve your methods by tweaking them on those datasets and running them on your own systems without computational resource limitations.

Dataset: Study 218

Tags: ChaLearn, Computer Systems, Manufacturing

Features: Class, fifty-nine other features

Keywords: Supervised Learning, Classification, Regression, Machine Learning, Datasets, Feature Representations, Human Intervention, Black Box, Code Submission, Prediction Results, Rounds, Difficulty, Automatic Machine Learning, Tweakathon Phases.