This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID Seventeen Thousand Five, and it has multiple rows and numerous features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PX Fifty.

The features represent Fingerprint Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include Molecule ChEMBL ID, and numerous Fingerprint features.

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project.

Tags: Economics, Life Science, MTLQSAR, study three

Dataset Name: QSAR-TID-Seventeen Thousand Five

The drug target is the Serotonin Two A receptor, also known as the Five Hydroxytryptamine Receptor Two A. It is a single protein and its preferred name is the Serotonin Two A receptor. It has multiple synonyms including Five HT Two, Five HT Two A, Five HTR Two A, and Five Hydroxytryptamine Receptor Two A.

It is found in the species Bos Taurus and its classification is one point Membrane Receptor, Family A G Protein Coupled Receptor, Small Molecule Receptor, Monoamine Receptor, and Serotonin Receptor.

It has multiple component relationships including plasma membrane, caveola, membrane, axon, dendrite, cytoplasmic vesicle, cell projection, synapse, and presynapse.

Its functions include G Protein Coupled Receptor Activity, G Protein Coupled Serotonin Receptor Activity, and Neurotransmitter Receptor Activity.

It is involved in multiple biological processes including signal transduction, G Protein Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, G Protein Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway coupled to cyclic nucleotide second messenger, phospholipase C activating G Protein Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, chemical synaptic transmission, behavior, release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol, and G Protein Coupled Serotonin Receptor Signaling Pathway.

Keywords: QSAR, Serotonin, Receptor, G Protein Coupled, Signal Transduction, Chemical Synaptic Transmission, Behavior.