Naval Propulsion Plant

Tags: Agriculture, Machine Learning

The Naval Propulsion Plant dataset contains simulated data from a Gas Turbine mounted on a Frigate with a Combined Diesel Electric And Gas propulsion plant type. The behavior of the propulsion system is described using three parameters: ship speed, compressor degradation coefficient, and turbine degradation coefficient. These parameters combine to form a unique triple describing each possible degradation state.

Sixteen features, which indirectly represent the state of the system subject to performance decay, have been measured and stored in the dataset across the parameter space. These features include lever position, ship speed, gas turbine shaft torque, gas turbine rate of revolutions, gas generator rate of revolutions, starboard propeller torque, port propeller torque, high-pressure turbine exit temperature, gas turbine compressor outlet air temperature, high-pressure turbine exit pressure, gas turbine compressor outlet air pressure, gas turbine exhaust gas pressure, turbine injection control, and fuel flow.

The goal is to estimate the gas turbine compressor decay state coefficient from these measurements. Two columns, gas turbine compressor inlet air pressure and gas turbine compressor inlet air temperature, were removed from the original dataset due to their constant values.

The dataset was generated using a sophisticated simulator of a naval vessel, which has been fine-tuned over the years based on several similar real propulsion plants. As a result, the available data agree with a possible real vessel. The simulator takes into account the performance decay over time of the gas turbine components, including the gas turbine compressor and turbines. The range of decay of the compressor and turbine has been sampled with a uniform grid to provide a good granularity of representation.

Keywords: naval propulsion plant, gas turbine, compressor degradation, turbine degradation, machine learning, agriculture.