GEMLeR provides a collection of gene expression datasets that can be utilized for benchmarking gene expression-oriented machine learning algorithms. These datasets can be employed for estimating different quality metrics, such as accuracy, precision, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, among others, for classification, feature selection, or clustering algorithms.

This repository was inspired by an increasing need in the machine learning and bioinformatics communities for a collection of microarray classification problems that could be utilized by different researchers. This allows many different classification or feature selection techniques to be compared to each other on the same set of problems.

Each gene expression sample in the GEMLeR repository originates from the large publicly available Expression Project for Oncology repository by the International Genomics Consortium. The primary objective of the Expression Project for Oncology and its consortium supporters is to procure tissue samples under standardized conditions and perform gene expression analyses on a clinically annotated set of de-identified tumor samples. The tumor data is updated with clinical outcomes and is released into the public domain without intellectual property restrictions. This availability of information translates into direct benefits for patients, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies alike.

Although there are various other sources of gene expression data available, the decision to utilize data from the Expression Project for Oncology repository was made due to the consistency of tissue sample processing procedures, the same microarray platform being used for all samples, the availability of additional information for combined genotype-phenotype studies, and the availability of a large number of samples for different tumor types.

In the event of publishing material based on GEMLeR datasets, please note the assistance received by utilizing this repository. This will enable others to obtain the same datasets and replicate experiments.

The repository contains numerous features, including identification references and various gene expressions.

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, Mythbusting, Study 

Keywords: gene expression, machine learning, microarray, bioinformatics, oncology, genomics