QSAR-TID-12238 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 12238. The dataset has thirty rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Cathepsin L, a single protein preferred name, also known as Cathepsin L, Cathepsin L one, Cathepsin L heavy chain, Cathepsin L light chain, and CP-two. The organism is Rattus norvegicus, and the species group is no protein target classification. The protein target classification is one enzyme, protease, cysteine protease, cysteine protease CA clan, and cysteine protease C one A family.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project, and it was created in September two thousand fifteen. The dataset is related to the Expression Atlas, and it has several gene ontology terms, including extracellular region, extracellular space, nucleus, nucleolus, lysosome, multivesicular body, plasma membrane, microvillus, external side of plasma membrane, membrane, apical plasma membrane, secretory granule, cytoplasmic vesicle, chromaffin granule, perikaryon, and apical part of cell.

The dataset also has several gene ontology functions, including fibronectin binding, endopeptidase activity, aminopeptidase activity, cysteine-type endopeptidase activity, collagen binding, peptidase activity, cysteine-type peptidase activity, cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process, hydrolase activity, cysteine-type carboxypeptidase activity, kininogen binding, peptide binding, histone binding, proteoglycan binding, protein-containing complex binding, and serpin family protein binding.

The dataset is also related to several gene ontology processes, including adaptive immune response, proteolysis, thyroid hormone generation, apoptotic process, immune response, spermatogenesis, male gonad development, cellular response to starvation, response to glucose, negative regulation of keratinocyte proliferation, positive regulation of peptidase activity, response to organic cyclic compound, protein autoprocessing, fusion of virus membrane with host plasma membrane, receptor-mediated endocytosis of virus by host cell, nerve development, protein catabolic process, collagen catabolic process, hair follicle morphogenesis, zymogen activation, developmental process, enkephalin processing, response to gonadotropin, fusion of virus membrane with host endosome membrane, CD four-positive, alpha-beta T cell lineage commitment, keratinocyte proliferation, decidualization, viral entry into host cell, antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen, autophagic cell death, response to glucocorticoid, proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process, Sertoli cell differentiation, elastin catabolic process, epithelial tube branching involved in lung morphogenesis, cellular response to thyroid hormone stimulus, and response to odorant.

Keywords: QSAR, Cathepsin L, Molecular Fingerprints, Gene Ontology, Protein Target Classification, MetaQSAR project.