This dataset belongs to the classification on numerical features benchmark. It originated from the ChaLearn Automatic Machine Learning Challenge, also known as AutoML, which is a supervised learning challenge in machine learning. The challenge provides thirty datasets, all pre-formatted in given feature representations, where each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients. The goal is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention.

The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, various metrics of evaluation, and various proportions of the number of features and the number of examples. The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, such as medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, and action recognition in video data.

The challenge is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the human in the loop, by finding the combination of methods and hyper-parameter settings that is best suited for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time. The challenge has code submission, where the code will be executed automatically on the servers to train and test the learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, and half of the prizes can be won by just submitting prediction results.

The challenge consists of six rounds, each introducing datasets of progressive difficulty. There is no prerequisite to participate in previous rounds to enter a new round. The rounds alternate between AutoML phases, where submitted code is blind tested in limited time on the platform using datasets never seen before, and Tweakathon phases, giving time to improve methods by tweaking them on those datasets and running them on own systems without computational resource limitations.

Keywords: machine learning, classification, regression, numerical features, AutoML, supervised learning, data diversity, black box, code submission.