Aircraft Pricing Dataset 

Tags: 

For a more comprehensive dataset with many more features, check out the Yacht/Motorboat Pricing Data dataset.

Context 
What are the most important factors in determining the price of a new or used aircraft? Is it the type of aircraft? The year of manufacture? The manufacturer? Or other characteristics? These are some of the questions regarding the used and new aircraft markets that I hope to answer with this dataset. 

The dataset contains a large collection of aircraft that are currently for sale around the world. The data was gathered during July of last year. 

Content 
The data was gathered from various websites using the Scrapy framework for Python. The script used to gather the data can be found online. 

The gathered content includes the following information about each aircraft: whether it is new or used, its price and currency, category, year of manufacture, make, model, location, serial number, registration number, total hours of operation, hours of operation for each engine and propeller, total seating capacity, flight rules, and national origin. 

Keep in mind that the data was gathered from two different sources. As a result, some information, such as whether the aircraft is new or used, engine hours, propeller hours, seating capacity, and flight rules, is missing for part of the dataset because it was only easily accessible on one of the sources. 

FAQ 
Flight Rules: There are two types of flight rules: Visual Flight Rules and Instrument Flight Rules. In simple terms, an aircraft equipped with Instrument Flight Rules is one where a pilot can fully navigate the aircraft using instruments in the cockpit. Any aircraft flying above eighteen thousand feet must, by law, be equipped with Instrument Flight Rules equipment. Beyond the Horizon refers to an aircraft equipped with a radar but does not fully meet Instrument Flight Rules criteria. Visual Flight Rules refer to the set of regulations under which a pilot operates an aircraft in weather conditions generally clear enough to allow the pilot to see where they are going. Instrument Flight Rules, on the other hand, refer to the set of regulations under which a pilot operates an aircraft primarily by reference to instruments. 

Features: 
Condition, Price, Currency, Category, Year, Make, Model, Location, Serial Number, Registration Number, Total Hours, Engine One Hours, Engine Two Hours, Prop One Hours, Prop Two Hours, Total Seats, Flight Rules, National Origin

Keywords: aircraft pricing, dataset, market analysis, flight rules, instrumentation