Volcanoes on Venus - JARtool Experiment Data Set 

Experiment: C1 

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, Study 

Dataset Title: Volcanoes on Venus - JARtool Experiment Data Set 

The data was collected by the Magellan spacecraft over a period of approximately four years from nineteen ninety to nineteen ninety-four. The primary objective of the mission was to obtain a global mapping of the surface of Venus using synthetic aperture radar. A more detailed discussion of the mission and its objectives is available at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory's Magellan webpage.

There are certain spatial dependencies present in the data. For instance, background patches from within a single image are likely to be more similar than background patches taken across different images. In addition to the images, there are ground truth files that specify the locations of volcanoes within the images. It is essential to note that there is no absolute ground truth for this data set, as no one has physically visited Venus, and the image quality does not permit one hundred percent, unambiguous identification of the volcanoes, even by human experts. There are labels provided that offer a measure of subjective uncertainty, ranging from definitely a volcano to only a pit being visible. This labeling uncertainty problem is discussed in further detail in relevant papers.

The images are comprised of one thousand twenty-four by one thousand twenty-four pixels. The pixel values range from zero to two fifty-five. The pixel value is directly related to the amount of energy backscattered to the radar from a given spatial location. Higher pixel values indicate a greater amount of backscatter, whereas lower pixel values indicate a lesser amount of backscatter. Both topography and surface roughness relative to the radar wavelength have a significant impact on the amount of backscatter.

Keywords: Volcanoes, Venus, Synthetic Aperture Radar, Global Mapping, Spatial Dependencies, Ground Truth, Labeling Uncertainty