Volcanoes on Venus - JARtool Experiment Data Set Experiment: E Five

Dataset Title: Volcanoes on Venus - JARtool Experiment 
Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, Study Seven 

Data Set Information:
The data was collected by the Magellan spacecraft over an approximate four-year period from nineteen ninety to nineteen ninety-four. The objective of the mission was to obtain global mapping of the surface of Venus using synthetic aperture radar. A more detailed discussion of the mission and objectives is available at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory's Magellan webpage. There are some spatial dependencies, for instance, background patches from within a single image are likely to be more similar than background patches taken across different images. In addition to the images, there are ground truth files that specify the locations of volcanoes within the images. The quotes around ground truth are intended as a reminder that there is no absolute ground truth for this data set. No one has been to Venus, and the image quality does not permit one hundred percent, unambiguous identification of the volcanoes, even by human experts.

Attribute Information:
The images are one thousand twenty-four by one thousand twenty-four pixels. The pixel values are in the range zero to two fifty-five. The pixel value is related to the amount of energy backscattered to the radar from a given spatial location. Higher pixel values indicate greater backscatter, whereas lower pixel values indicate lesser backscatter. Both topography and surface roughness relative to the radar wavelength affect the amount of backscatter.

Relevant Papers:
Magellan Radar Performance and Data Products, Science 
Magellan Mission Summary, Journal of Geophysical Research Planets 
Learning to Recognize Volcanoes on Venus, Machine Learning 
Knowledge Discovery in Large Image Databases Dealing with Uncertainties in Ground Truth, Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 

Keywords: Volcanoes, Venus, Synthetic Aperture Radar, Magellan Spacecraft, Ground Truth, Image Quality, Backscatter, Topography, Surface Roughness.