Name: AP Endometrium Kidney
Tags: mf less than, study

Source: Unknown - Date unknown

Please cite: GEMLeR provides a collection of gene expression datasets that can be used for benchmarking gene expression oriented machine learning algorithms. These datasets can be utilized for estimating various quality metrics (such as accuracy, precision, area under ROC curve, etc.) for classification, feature selection, or clustering algorithms. This repository was inspired by an increasing need in the machine learning and bioinformatics communities for a collection of microarray classification problems that could be used by different researchers. This approach allows many different classification or feature selection techniques to be compared to each other on the same set of problems.

Origin of data: Each gene expression sample in the GEMLeR repository comes from a large publicly available expO (Expression Project For Oncology) repository by the International Genomics Consortium. The goal of expO and its consortium supporters is to procure tissue samples under standard conditions and perform gene expression analyses on a clinically annotated set of deidentified tumor samples. The tumor data is updated with clinical outcomes and is released into the public domain without intellectual property restrictions. The availability of this information translates into direct benefits for patients, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies alike.

The decision to use data from the expO repository was made because of:
- Consistency of tissue samples processing procedure
- Same microarray platform used for all samples
- Availability of additional information for combined genotype phenotype studies
- Availability of a large number of samples for different tumor types

In case of publishing material based on GEMLeR datasets, please note the assistance you received by using this repository. This will help others to obtain the same datasets and replicate your experiments. When referring to this repository, please cite as follows:

[Citation removed]

You are also welcome to acknowledge the contribution of expO (Expression Project For Oncology) and International Genomics Consortium for providing their gene expression samples to the public.

Features: [List of features removed due to being human unreadable]

Keywords: gene expression, machine learning, microarray classification, benchmarking, tumor samples, bioinformatics, expO repository