This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systemes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains multiple features including molecule ChEMBL ID, and multiple FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprint features.

The Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor is a single protein preferred name with synonyms including Gnrhr, GnRH-R, GnRH receptor, and Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor. It belongs to the species group Rattus norvegicus, and its protein target classification is one point membrane receptor slash family A G-protein coupled receptor slash peptide receptor family A GPCR slash short peptide receptor family A GPCR slash GnRH receptor.

The description relationship accession for the Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor is P three zero nine sixty-nine. There is no data available for the ChEMBL ID relationship pref name target type.

The component ontology for the Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor includes plasma membrane and membrane. The function ontology includes G-protein coupled receptor activity, Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone receptor activity, protein binding, protein-hormone receptor activity, growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor activity, and peptide binding.

The process ontology for the Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor includes signal transduction, G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway, circadian rhythm, negative regulation of cell population proliferation, cellular response to hormone stimulus, and cellular response to Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone.

Keywords: QSAR, Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor, FCFP, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES, Pipeline Pilot, BIOVIA, Protein Target Classification, Component Ontology, Function Ontology, Process Ontology.