This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features were formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies. The other datasets were taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, which is related to the article published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. Another study is MTP two, which was published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three. There are also Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two, which were all published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP study was published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model in two thousand five. Benzo thirty-two was published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. PHENETYL one was published in the book QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches in nineteen ninety-three. PAH was published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five.

The PDGFR dataset is related to the article published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four. Phen was published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two. Topo two one and YProp four one were published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three. QSABR one and QSABR two were published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-seven. QSARTox was published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-eight.

QSBR RW one was published in the book Biodegradation of Dioxins and Furans in nineteen ninety-eight. QSBR Y two was published in the book Biodegradability Prediction in nineteen ninety-eight. QSBR Alks was published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-eight. QSFRDHLa was published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-seven. QSFSR one and QSFSR two were both published in the journal Protein Engineering in nineteen ninety-eight.

QSPrCmpX was published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand. Selwood was published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Keywords: Drug Design, Machine Learning, Statistics, QSAR, Adriana Code, Medicinal Chemistry.