The CNN Stock Prediction dataset covers features from various categories of technical indicators, futures contracts, prices of commodities, important indices of markets around the world, prices of major companies in the US market, and treasury bill rates. This dataset only contains information from the S&P.

Features include date, close, volume, momentum, rate of change, exponential moving average, treasury bill rates, oil prices, gold prices, and exchange rates. Additionally, there are features related to major company stocks, international indices, and commodity prices.

This dataset was scraped from various sources, and a thorough description of the features can be found in the paper "CNNpred: CNN-based stock market prediction using a diverse set of variables."

On the other hand, the HTRU2 dataset describes a sample of pulsar candidates collected during the High Time Resolution Universe Survey. Pulsars are a rare type of neutron star that produce radio emission detectable on Earth. They are of considerable scientific interest as probes of space-time, the interstellar medium, and states of matter.

Each pulsar produces a unique emission pattern, which varies slightly with each rotation. Therefore, pulsar search involves looking for periodic radio signals with large radio telescopes. A potential signal detection, known as a candidate, is averaged over many rotations of the pulsar, as determined by the length of an observation.

In the absence of additional information, each candidate could potentially describe a real pulsar. However, in practice, almost all detections are caused by radio frequency interference and noise, making legitimate signals hard to find. Machine learning tools are now being used to automatically label pulsar candidates to facilitate rapid analysis.

Classification systems, in particular, are being widely adopted, which treat the candidate data sets as binary classification problems. Here, the legitimate pulsar examples are a minority positive class, and spurious examples are the majority negative class.

The dataset contains sixteen thousand two hundred fifty-nine spurious examples caused by radio frequency interference and noise, and one thousand six hundred thirty-nine real pulsar examples. These examples have all been checked by human annotators. The data is presented in two formats: CSV and ARFF.

Candidates are stored in both files in separate rows. Each row lists the variables first, and the class label is the final entry. The class labels used are zero for negative and one for positive. Please note that the data contains no positional information or other astronomical details. It is simply feature data extracted from candidate files using the Pulsar Feature Lab tool.

Each candidate is described by eight continuous variables and a single class variable. The first four variables are simple statistics obtained from the integrated pulse profile. The remaining four variables are similarly obtained from the DM-SNR curve.

Keywords: stock market prediction, pulsar candidates, machine learning, binary classification, radio frequency interference, neutron stars, space-time, interstellar medium, states of matter.