DEXTER is a text classification problem in a bag-of-word representation. This is a two-class classification problem with sparse continuous input variables. This dataset is one of five datasets of the NIPS feature selection challenge.

The original data set is a subset of the well-known Reuters text categorization benchmark. The data was originally collected and labeled in the course of developing the CONSTRUE text categorization system. It is hosted by the UCI KDD repository.

We used the corporate acquisition text classification class pre-processed in the bag-of-words representation. The task is to learn which Reuters articles are about corporate acquisitions. We added a number of distractor features called probes having no predictive power. The order of the features and patterns were randomized.

The data set information includes the number of variables, features, and attributes. The data is split into training, validation, and test sets. Target values are provided only for the training and validation sets. Test set performance results are obtained by submitting prediction results.

The data are in the following format: data name parameters and statistics about the data, data name features identities of the features, data name training data training set, data name validation data validation set, data name test data test set, data name training labels labels for training examples, data name validation labels validation set labels, and data name test labels test set labels.

This dataset is one of five datasets used in the NIPS feature selection challenge. Our website is still open for post-challenge submissions. Information about other related challenges is found at the website. The package includes sample code to process these data.

All details about the preparation of the data are found in the technical report. Such information was made available only after the end of the challenge.

Keywords: text classification, bag-of-word representation, corporate acquisition, Reuters text categorization, feature selection challenge.