QSAR-TID-10528 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10528. The dataset has sixty-two rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mu Opioid Receptor. The Mu Opioid Receptor is a single protein, also known as M-OR-one, MOR-one, Mu-type Opioid Receptor, and OPRM one. It is a membrane receptor, belonging to the family A G protein-coupled receptor, peptide receptor family, and short peptide receptor family.

The Mu Opioid Receptor is involved in various biological processes, including signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway, phospholipase C-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, neuropeptide signaling pathway, sensory perception of pain, and G protein-coupled opioid receptor signaling pathway.

The receptor is also involved in the regulation of various cellular processes, including negative regulation of cAMP-mediated signaling, negative regulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process, positive regulation of neurogenesis, negative regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration, negative regulation of Wnt protein secretion, positive regulation of ERK one and ERK two cascade, calcium ion transmembrane transport, cellular response to morphine, and regulation of NMDA receptor activity.

Keywords: Mu Opioid Receptor, QSAR, G protein-coupled receptor, signal transduction, opioid receptor signaling pathway, sensory perception of pain.