The CPU Activity dataset is a collection of computer systems activity measures. The data was collected from a Sun Sparcstation twenty-seven twelve with one hundred twenty-eight megabytes of memory running in a multi-user university department. Users would typically be doing a large variety of tasks ranging from accessing the internet, editing files, or running very CPU-bound programs.

The data was collected continuously on two separate occasions. On both occasions, system activity was gathered every five seconds. The final dataset is taken from both occasions with equal numbers of observations coming from each collection epoch.

System measures used include reads between system memory and user memory, writes between system memory and user memory, number of system calls of all types per second, number of system read calls per second, number of system write calls per second, number of system fork calls per second, number of system exec calls per second, number of characters transferred per second by system read calls, number of characters transferred per second by system write calls, number of page out requests per second, number of pages paged out per second, number of pages per second placed on the free list, number of pages checked if they can be freed per second, number of page attaches satisfying a page fault by reclaiming a page in memory per second, number of page-in requests per second, number of pages paged in per second, number of page faults caused by protection errors, number of page faults caused by address translation, process run queue size, number of memory pages available to user processes, number of disk blocks available for page swapping, portion of time that CPUs run in user mode, portion of time that CPUs run in system mode, portion of time that CPUs are idle waiting for block IO, and portion of time that CPUs are otherwise idle.

The classification task involves predicting the portion of time that CPUs run in user mode from all attributes.

Characteristics of this dataset include eight thousand one hundred ninety-two cases and twenty-two continuous attributes.

Keywords: CPU Activity, computer systems, system measures, classification task, machine learning.