SPECTF 
Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, Study 

This is a corrected version of the previous data file, which contained a dataset incorrectly merged from the original training and test sets available on UCI. This file fixes that problem by merging the training set with the correct test set, resulting in 267 instances.

The SPECTF Heart Data is a merged version of the separate train and test set, which are usually distributed. On OpenML, this train-test split can be found as one of the possible tasks. Note that the SPECT Heart Data provides binary data for the same classification task.

The dataset describes diagnosing of cardiac Single Proton Emission Computed Tomography images. Each of the patients is classified into two categories: normal and abnormal. The database of SPECT image sets was processed to extract features that summarize the original SPECT images. As a result, a forty-four continuous feature pattern was created for each patient. The CLIP three algorithm was used to generate classification rules from these patterns. The CLIP three algorithm generated rules that were accurate, as compared with cardiologists' diagnoses.

Features include various counts in regions of interest in rest and stress conditions.

Scraped Data: 
Dataset Information 

Additional Information 
The dataset describes diagnosing of cardiac Single Proton Emission Computed Tomography images. Each of the patients is classified into two categories: normal and abnormal. The database of SPECT image sets was processed to extract features that summarize the original SPECT images. As a result, a forty-four continuous feature pattern was created for each patient. The CLIP three algorithm was used to generate classification rules from these patterns. The CLIP three algorithm generated rules that were accurate, as compared with cardiologists' diagnoses.

The SPECTF data set is a good data set for testing machine learning algorithms; it has instances that are described by attributes. The predicted attribute is Overall Diagnosis, which is binary.

Note: See the SPECT Heart Data for binary data for the same classification task.

Has Missing Values? 
No 

Additional Variable Information 
One. Overall Diagnosis: class attribute, binary
Two. Various count features in regions of interest in rest and stress conditions: continuous
All continuous attributes have integer values from zero to one hundred.
The dataset is divided into training data and testing data.

Keywords: SPECTF, cardiac diagnosis, machine learning, Single Proton Emission Computed Tomography, classification rules, cardiologists' diagnoses, cardiac images, region of interest, machine learning algorithms.