Cushing's Syndrome 

Data from this dataset relate to patients suffering from Cushing's Syndrome. The data file contains four columns, including the label of the patient, Tetrahydrocortisone levels, Pregnanetriol levels, and the type of disease. However, the type of disease for the last six patients should be considered unknown.

Synthetic Two-Class Problem 

This dataset consists of two real-valued coordinates and a class label that is either zero or one. The data is divided into a training set and a test set.

Viruses 

This dataset comprises sixty-one viruses that affect various crops, including tobacco, tomatoes, and cucumbers. Each virus is characterized by eighteen measurements of the number of amino acid residues per molecule of coat protein. The data file contains sixty-one rows of eighteen counts. A separate file contains thirty-eight rows corresponding to the distinct Tobamoviruses.

Leptograpsus Crabs 

This dataset describes the morphology of fifty rock crabs of each sex of each of two color forms. The data file contains information about the species, sex, and four physical characteristics: frontal lip of carapace, rear width of carapace, length along the midline of carapace, and body depth.

Forensic Glass 

This dataset originates from forensic testing of glass fragments. Each sample is characterized by its refractive index and the percentage weights of eight oxides: sodium, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, potassium, calcium, barium, and iron. The data file contains information about two hundred fourteen glass fragments, each assigned to one of seven types.

Diabetes in Pima Indians 

This dataset describes a population of women of Pima Indian heritage living near Phoenix, Arizona, who were tested for diabetes according to World Health Organization criteria. The data file contains information about the number of pregnancies, plasma glucose concentration, diastolic blood pressure, triceps skin fold thickness, serum insulin, body mass index, diabetes pedigree function, and age in years.

Tags: study_123, study_41, study_88

Keywords: Cushing's Syndrome, Synthetic Two-Class Problem, Viruses, Leptograpsus Crabs, Forensic Glass, Diabetes in Pima Indians, Pattern Recognition, Neural Networks.