This dataset is part of a collection of datasets based on the game Jungle Chess, also known as Dou Shou Qi. For a description of the rules, please refer to the paper. The paper also contains a description of various constructed features.

As the tablebases are a disjoint set of several tablebases based on which two pieces are on the board, we have uploaded all tablebases that have explicit different content: Rat versus Rat, Rat versus Panther, Rat versus Lion, Rat versus Elephant, Panther versus Lion, Panther versus Elephant, Tiger versus Lion, Lion versus Lion, Lion versus Elephant, Elephant versus Elephant, Complete (Combination of the above), and RAW Complete (Combination of the above, containing for both pieces just the rank, file, and strength information).

This dataset contains a similar classification problem as, for example, the King and Rook versus King problem and is suitable for classification tasks. Note that this dataset is one of the above-mentioned datasets. Additionally, note that several subproblems are very similar. Having seen a given position from one of the tablebases arguably gives a lot of information about the outcome of the same position in the other tablebases.

Please cite the paper.

Features: White Piece Strength, White Piece File, White Piece Rank, White Piece Advanced, White Piece Distance to White Den, White Piece Distance to Black Den, White Piece Unopposed to Black Den Length, White Piece Unopposed to Black Den Shortest, White Piece Moves to White Den, White Piece Moves to Black Den, White Piece in Trap, White Piece in Water, White Piece Can Cross, White Piece Can Cross Shortest, White Piece Unopposed to Bank, White Piece Distance to Black Piece, White Piece Distance to Black Piece Parity, White Piece Next to Black Piece, Black Piece Strength, Black Piece File, Black Piece Rank, Black Piece Advanced, Black Piece Distance to White Den, Black Piece Distance to Black Den, Black Piece Moves to White Den, Black Piece Moves to Black Den, Black Piece Unopposed to White Den Length, Black Piece Unopposed to White Den Shortest, Black Piece in Trap, Black Piece in Water, Black Piece Can Cross, Black Piece Can Cross Shortest, Black Piece Unopposed to Bank, Black Piece at D7, Black Piece Distance to White Piece, Black Piece Distance to White Piece Parity, Black Piece Next to White Piece, Highest Strength, Closest to Den, Closest to Den Difference, Fastest to Den, Fastest to Den Difference, White Unopposed to Den, Black Unopposed to Den, White Unopposed to Den Quick Detour, Black Unopposed to Den Quick Detour, Class.

Keywords: Jungle Chess, Dou Shou Qi, Tablebases, Classification, Pieces, Strength, Distance, Den, Trap, Water, Cross, Bank, Parity.