Covertype Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "classification on categorical and numerical features" benchmark.

Original Description:

The Covertype dataset is a famous dataset used to predict forest cover type from cartographic variables only, without using remotely sensed data. The actual forest cover type for a given observation, which is a thirty by thirty meter cell, was determined from US Forest Service Region Two Resource Information System data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from US Geological Survey and US Forest Service data. The data is in its raw form, not scaled, and contains binary columns of data for qualitative independent variables, such as wilderness areas and soil types.

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices. Some background information for these four wilderness areas is that Neota probably has the highest mean elevational value, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would have a lower mean elevational value, and Cache la Poudre would have the lowest mean elevational value. As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce and fir, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine, followed by spruce and fir and aspen. Cache la Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa pine, Douglas-fir, and cottonwood and willow.

Attribute Information:

Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database.

Elevation is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, describing the elevation in meters. Aspect is a quantitative attribute measured in azimuth, describing the aspect in degrees azimuth. Slope is a quantitative attribute measured in degrees, describing the slope in degrees. Horizontal Distance to Hydrology is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, describing the horizontal distance to the nearest surface water features. Vertical Distance to Hydrology is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, describing the vertical distance to the nearest surface water features. Horizontal Distance to Roadways is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, describing the horizontal distance to the nearest roadway. Hillshade at Nine am is a quantitative attribute measured in a zero to two hundred and fifty-five index, describing the hillshade index at nine am, summer solstice. Hillshade at Noon is a quantitative attribute measured in a zero to two hundred and fifty-five index, describing the hillshade index at noon, summer solstice. Hillshade at Three pm is a quantitative attribute measured in a zero to two hundred and fifty-five index, describing the hillshade index at three pm, summer solstice. Horizontal Distance to Fire Points is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, describing the horizontal distance to the nearest wildfire ignition points.

Wilderness Area is a qualitative attribute with four binary columns, describing the wilderness area designation. Soil Type is a qualitative attribute with forty binary columns, describing the soil type designation. Cover Type is an integer attribute with seven types, describing the forest cover type designation.

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, soil types, forest management practices, ecological processes.