Contaminant Detection in Packaged Cocoa Hazelnut Spread Jars using Microwaves Sensing and Machine Learning 

This dataset is part of a series of five different datasets, each one measured with a different microwave frequency. 

Dataset Description 

To detect contaminants accidentally included in industrial food, Microwave Sensing can be used as a contactless detection method, particularly when the food is already packaged. Microwave Sensing uses microwaves to illuminate the target object through a set of antennas, records the scattered waves, and uses Machine Learning to predict the presence of contaminants inside the target object. In this application, the target object is a cocoa hazelnut spread jar, and each instance, or sample, of this dataset consists of thirty scattering parameters of the network composed by antennas, target object, with or without a contaminant inside, and medium, or the air, in between. The types of contaminants vary from metal to glass and plastic.

Each sample has been measured at five different microwave frequencies. 

Data Set Characteristics 

The microwave frequency used for acquisition is nine point zero gigahertz. 
The total number of instances is two thousand four hundred.
The total number of uncontaminated instances is one thousand two hundred.
The total number of contaminated instances is one thousand two hundred.
The total number of classes is eleven.

The last column, column thirty-one, contains the class label as an integer value.

The number of contaminated instances divided per class is as follows: 
Air surface, which is a cap-shaped plastic with the same dielectric constant of the air, has two hundred instances.
Big pink plastic sphere middle has one hundred instances.
Big pink plastic sphere surface has one hundred instances.
Glass fragment middle has one hundred instances.
Glass fragment surface has one hundred instances.
Small metal sphere middle has one hundred instances.
Small metal sphere surface has one hundred instances.
Small plastic sphere middle has one hundred instances.
Small plastic sphere surface has one hundred instances.
Small triangular plastic fragment surface has two hundred instances.

Surface means that the instance was placed on top of the cocoa hazelnut spread, at the spread-air interface.
Middle means that the instance was placed in the middle of the jar filled with cocoa hazelnut spread.

The number of attributes in a generic instance is thirty.

Attribute Information 

This is the six-by-six Scattering Matrix, or S.
The first thirty attributes, or columns, of an instance are the fifteen elements of the triangular upper part of S.
Since each of these elements is a complex number with real and imaginary parts, each instance is a vector of fifteen times two equals thirty attributes.
The real and imaginary parts of each element are placed one after the other.
The scattering parameters are ordered row by row from left to right.

Keywords: contaminant detection, microwave sensing, machine learning, food safety, cocoa hazelnut spread, industrial food processing.