This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, MTP Two, Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two.

The Carbolenes dataset is derived from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six, titled "Structure-Activity Relationships of Carbolenes". 

The MTP Two dataset is derived from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three, titled "General Melting Point Prediction Based on a Diverse Compound Dataset and Artificial Neural Networks".

The Chang dataset is part of a larger collection of datasets derived from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six, titled "Neighborhood Behavior: A Useful Concept for Validation of Molecular Diversity Descriptors".

Benzo Thirty-Two is derived from the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six, titled "Syntheses, Pharmacological Evaluation, and Molecular Modelling of Substituted Six-Alkoxyimidazo One Two-B Pyridazines as New Ligands for the Benzodiazepine Receptor".

Phenetyle One is part of a larger collection of datasets derived from the book "QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches", published in nineteen ninety-three.

PAH is derived from the study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five, titled "Weighted Holistic Invariant Molecular Descriptors. Part Two. Theory Development and Applications on Modelling Physiochemical Properties of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons".

PDGFR is derived from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four, titled "The Development of Linear, Ensemble, and Nonlinear Models for the Prediction and Interpretation of the Biological Activity of a Set of PDGFR Inhibitors".

Phen is derived from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two, titled "Interrelationship of the Regression Models Used for Structure-Activity Analyses".

Topo Two One and YProp Four One are part of a larger collection of datasets derived from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three, titled "Predictive Toxicology: Benchmarking Molecular Descriptors and Statistical Methods".

QSAR BR One, QSAR BR Two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW One, QSBR Y Two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR One, and QSFSR Two are all part of a larger collection of datasets derived from various studies published between nineteen ninety-five and two thousand.

Keywords: Drug Design, QSAR, Molecular Descriptors, Adriana Code Software, Physiochemical Properties, Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons, PDGFR Inhibitors, Structure-Activity Analyses.