Data on COVID-19 (Coronavirus)

Tags: Coronavirus Country Profiles

We built comprehensive country profiles that allow you to delve into the statistics on the coronavirus pandemic for every country in the world. In a rapidly evolving pandemic, it is not a simple matter to identify the countries that are most successful in making progress against it. Excess mortality and the rate of confirmed deaths are what we focus on in the sections below, but for a fuller assessment, a wider perspective is useful. For this purpose, we track the impact of the pandemic across our publication, and we built country profiles to study the statistics on the coronavirus pandemic for every country in the world in depth.

Each profile includes interactive visualizations, explanations of the presented metrics, and the details on the sources of the data. Every country profile is updated daily.

The profiles feature a range of metrics, including the total number of cases, new cases, and new cases smoothed, as well as the total number of deaths, new deaths, and new deaths smoothed. We also provide metrics on the total number of cases and deaths per million people, as well as the reproduction rate, ICU patients, hospital patients, and weekly ICU and hospital admissions.

In addition, we track the total number of tests, new tests, and total tests per thousand people, as well as the positive rate, tests per case, and tests units. We also provide data on total vaccinations, people vaccinated, people fully vaccinated, and total boosters, as well as new vaccinations, new vaccinations smoothed, and total vaccinations per hundred people.

Furthermore, we include metrics on the stringency index, population, population density, median age, and the percentage of the population aged 65 or older and 70 or older. We also provide data on GDP per capita, extreme poverty, cardiovascular death rate, diabetes prevalence, female and male smokers, handwashing facilities, hospital beds per thousand people, life expectancy, and human development index.

Finally, we track excess mortality cumulative absolute, excess mortality cumulative, excess mortality, and excess mortality cumulative per million people.

Keywords: Coronavirus, Country Profiles, Pandemic, Mortality, Vaccinations, Testing, Demographics, Economy, Health.