**Detroit**
Tags: 

This dataset contains information about the homicide rate in Detroit for a period of time. Specifically, the data spans from nineteen sixty-one to nineteen seventy-three. This particular collection of data is referred to as DETROIT in the book Subset Selection in Regression.

The data is notable due to the fact that a subset of three predictors can be identified which provides a significantly better fit to the data compared to the subsets discovered through the use of the Efroymson stepwise algorithm, forward selection, or backward elimination.

Originally, this data was presented in an appendix of the book Regression Analysis and Its Application: A Data-Oriented Approach. However, there have been issues with this data due to the fact that some editions of the aforementioned book do not include the complete dataset. Furthermore, the specific variables utilized as predictors and the dependent variable were not explicitly stated.

It has since been clarified that HOM was the dependent variable, and the predictors consisted of FTP, as well as other factors. The data was initially compiled by an individual and later utilized in their research paper titled Homicide in Detroit: The Role of Firearms.

The dataset encompasses various attributes including full-time police per one hundred thousand population, the percentage of unemployment within the population, the number of manufacturing workers in thousands, the number of handgun licenses per one hundred thousand population, the number of handgun registrations per one hundred thousand population, the percentage of homicides cleared by arrests, the number of white males within the population, the number of non-manufacturing workers in thousands, the number of government workers in thousands, average hourly earnings, average weekly earnings, the number of homicides per one hundred thousand of population, death rate in accidents per one hundred thousand population, and the number of assaults per one hundred thousand population.

Keywords: homicide rate, Detroit, regression analysis, predictors, dependent variable