Condominium Comparable Rental Income in NYC

Tags: If you think the dataset is useful please vote for it, it's an assignment from my data science class, I'll be appreciate!

The Department of Finance is required by New York State law to value condominiums or cooperatives as if they were residential rental apartment buildings. The Department of Finance uses income information from rental properties similar in physical features and location to the condominiums or cooperatives. This income data is then applied to the condominium or cooperative to determine its value in the same way the Department of Finance values rental apartment buildings.

This report includes information at a condominium suffix level, which represents a subdivision of the condominium since the Department of Finance values condominiums at a suffix level. A condominium may have more than one suffix.

The dataset contains reports from multiple years. The Borough-Block-Lot location of the subject condominium is provided, which identifies the condominium billing lot generally associated with the condominium management organization. The street address of the property is also included.

The neighborhood name is determined by the Department of Finance in the course of valuing properties. The common name of the neighborhood is generally the same as the name the Department of Finance designates. However, there may be slight differences in neighborhood boundary lines.

The building classification code is used to describe a property's use. This report includes the code as well as the description of the building class.

The total number of units in the building, the year the building was built, and the gross square footage of the building are also provided. The estimated gross income, estimated expense, and net operating income are calculated based on the gross square footage. The full market value represents the current year's total market value of the land and building.

The report year is also included in the dataset.

Agency: Department of Finance
Source: NYC Open Data

Features: Borough Block Lot, Address, Neighborhood, Building Classification, Total Units, Year Built, Gross Square Footage, Estimated Gross Income, Estimated Expense, Net Operating Income, Full Market Value, Report Year

Keywords: Condominium, Rental Income, New York City, Department of Finance, Property Valuation, Real Estate