This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: two hundred sixty-two, and it has four hundred twenty-nine rows and one thousand twenty-six features.

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program, dassault systèmes biovia. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project from September two thousand fifteen.

The preferred name for this target is prostanoid ep four receptor, also known as pge two receptor ep four subtype, pge receptor ep four subtype, prostaglandin e two receptor ep four subtype, and ptger two.

The organism associated with this target is homo sapiens, and it belongs to the species group no.

The protein target classification is one point membrane receptor family a g protein-coupled receptor small molecule receptor family a gpcr lipid-like ligand receptor family a gpcr prostanoid receptor.

The description relationship accession for this target is prostaglandin e two receptor ep four subtype single protein p three five four zero eight.

There are several mechanism of actions associated with this target, including prostaglandin e two receptor ep four subtype antagonist and prostaglandin e two receptor ep four subtype agonist.

Some of the go components associated with this target include plasma membrane and membrane.

Some of the go functions associated with this target include g protein-coupled receptor activity, prostaglandin receptor activity, prostaglandin e receptor activity, and protein binding.

There are many go processes associated with this target, including negative regulation of cytokine production, positive regulation of cytokine production, inflammatory response, immune response, signal transduction, g protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-modulating g protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-activating g protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration, jnk cascade, response to mechanical stimulus, response to nematode, regulation of ossification, response to lipopolysaccharide, negative regulation of integrin activation, t-helper cell differentiation, negative regulation of inflammatory response, positive regulation of inflammatory response, regulation of stress fiber assembly, bone development, erk one and erk two cascade, cellular response to mechanical stimulus, cellular response to prostaglandin e stimulus, and negative regulation of eosinophil extravasation.

Keywords: QSAR, MetaQSAR, prostanoid ep four receptor, prostaglandin e two receptor, g protein-coupled receptor, molecular fingerprints, smiles strings.