This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The dataset Carbolenes is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The dataset MTP Two is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

The datasets Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two are formed from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The dataset MTP is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling.

The dataset Benzo Thirty-Two is formed from the original study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The dataset Phenethyl One is formed from the original study published in the book QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches.

The dataset PAH is formed from the original study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems.

The dataset PDGF-R is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science.

The dataset Phen is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The datasets Topo Two One and Y Prop Four One are formed from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science.

The datasets QSAR BR One, QSAR BR Two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW One, QSBR Y Two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR One, QSFSR Two, and QS PR CM PX are formed from the original studies published in various journals and books.

The dataset Selwood is formed from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Keywords: Drug Design, Adriana Code, Medicinal Chemistry, Chemical Information, QSAR, Machine Learning.