Optical Interconnection Network Data Set

Tags: Optical Interconnection Network

Data Set Information

All simulations were performed using the OPNET Modeler software. The communication mechanism used is message passing, where any processor can submit a point-to-point message to the network, destined for any other processor. The M/M/1 queue was considered in the calculations, consisting of a First-in First-Out buffer with packets arriving randomly according to a Poisson arrival process, and a processor that retrieves packets from the buffer at a specified service rate. In all simulations, it is assumed that the processor at each node extracts a packet from an input queue, processes it for a period of time, and when that period expires, it generates an output data message. The size of each input queue is assumed to be infinite. A processor becomes idle only when all its input queues are empty.

Attribute Information

The node number refers to the number of nodes in the network, which can be either eight by eight or four by four. The thread number represents the number of threads in each node at the beginning of the simulation. The spatial distribution evaluates the performance of the network using synthetic traffic workloads, including uniform, hot region, bit reverse, and perfect shuffle traffic models. The temporal distribution of packet generation is implemented by independent traffic sources, including client-server traffic and asynchronous traffic. The message transfer time and thread run time are also considered, with the message transfer time being uniformly distributed with a mean range from twenty to one hundred clock cycles, and the thread run time being exponentially distributed with a mean of one hundred clock cycles. The processor utilization measures the percentage of time that threads are running in the processor. The channel waiting time is the average waiting time of a packet at the output channel queue until it is serviced by the channel. The input waiting time is the average waiting time of a packet until it is serviced by the processor. The network response time is the time between a request message being enqueued at the output channel and the corresponding data message being received in the input queue. The channel utilization measures the percentage of time that the channel is busy transferring packets to the network.

Keywords: Optical Interconnection Network, Message Passing, M/M/1 Queue, Processor Utilization, Channel Waiting Time, Network Response Time