MAGIC Gamma Telescope Dataset

Tags: MAGIC gamma telescope data

The MAGIC Gamma Telescope Dataset is a collection of Monte Carlo generated data simulating the registration of high energy gamma particles in a ground-based atmospheric Cherenkov gamma telescope using the imaging technique. This technique observes high energy gamma rays by taking advantage of the radiation emitted by charged particles produced inside the electromagnetic showers initiated by the gammas, and developing in the atmosphere. The Cherenkov radiation, which is of visible to UV wavelengths, leaks through the atmosphere and gets recorded in the detector, allowing reconstruction of the shower parameters.

The available information consists of pulses left by the incoming Cherenkov photons on the photomultiplier tubes, arranged in a plane, the camera. Depending on the energy of the primary gamma, a total of few hundreds to some thousands of Cherenkov photons get collected, in patterns called the shower image, allowing to discriminate statistically those caused by primary gammas (signal) from the images of hadronic showers initiated by cosmic rays in the upper atmosphere (background). Typically, the image of a shower after some pre-processing is an elongated cluster. Its long axis is oriented towards the camera center if the shower axis is parallel to the telescope's optical axis, i.e. if the telescope axis is directed towards a point source.

A principal component analysis is performed in the camera plane, which results in a correlation axis and defines an ellipse. If the depositions were distributed as a bivariate Gaussian, this would be an equidensity ellipse. The characteristic parameters of this ellipse, often called Hillas parameters, are among the image parameters that can be used for discrimination. The energy depositions are typically asymmetric along the major axis, and this asymmetry can also be used in discrimination. There are, in addition, further discriminating characteristics, like the extent of the cluster in the image plane, or the total sum of depositions.

The dataset was generated by a Monte Carlo program, allowing to observe events with energies down to below a certain threshold. The dataset consists of a large number of instances, each described by a set of attributes, including the class. The attributes include the major axis of the ellipse, the minor axis of the ellipse, the ten-log of the sum of the content of all pixels, the ratio of the sum of the two highest pixels over the total sum, the ratio of the highest pixel over the total sum, the distance from the highest pixel to the center, projected onto the major axis, the third root of the third moment along the major axis, the third root of the third moment along the minor axis, the angle of the major axis with the vector to the origin, and the distance from the origin to the center of the ellipse.

The class distribution is skewed, with the majority of events belonging to the background class. However, for technical reasons, the number of background events is underestimated. In the real data, the background class represents the majority of the events. The simple classification accuracy is not meaningful for this data, since classifying a background event as signal is worse than classifying a signal event as background. For comparison of different classifiers, an ROC curve has to be used. The relevant points on this curve are those, where the probability of accepting a background event as signal is below certain thresholds, depending on the required quality of the sample of the accepted events for different experiments.

Keywords: gamma telescope, Cherenkov radiation, Monte Carlo simulation, image classification, signal background separation, ROC curve.