The Robot Execution Failures Data Set 

Abstract:
This data set contains force and torque measurements on a robot after failure detection. Each failure is characterized by fifteen force/torque samples collected at regular time intervals.

Source:
Original owner and donor, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Monte da Caparica, Portugal.

Data Set Information:
The donation includes five data sets, each of which defines a different learning problem: 
failures in approach to grasp position, 
failures in transfer of a part, 
position of part after a transfer failure, 
failures in approach to ungrasp position, 
and 
failures in motion with part.
In order to improve classification accuracy, a set of five feature transformation strategies based on statistical summary features, discrete Fourier transform, etc. was defined and evaluated, enabling an average improvement of twenty percent in accuracy.

Attribute Information:
All features are numeric, although they are integer-valued only. Each feature represents a force or a torque measured after failure detection; each failure instance is characterized in terms of fifteen force/torque samples collected at regular time intervals starting immediately after failure detection; the total observation window for each failure instance was three hundred fifteen milliseconds. Each example is described as follows: 
class Force X one, Force Y one, Force Z one, Torque X one, Torque Y one, Torque Z one, Force X two, Force Y two, Force Z two, Torque X two, Torque Y two, Torque Z two,..., Force X fifteen, Force Y fifteen, Force Z fifteen, Torque X fifteen, Torque Y fifteen, Torque Z fifteen, 
where Force X one through Force X fifteen is the evolution of force Fx in the observation window, the same for Fy, Fz, and the torques; there is a total of ninety features.

Relevant Papers:
Robot Learning at the Task Level: a Study in the Assembly Domain,
Feature Transformation Strategies for a Robot Learning Problem,
Integration and Learning in Supervision of Flexible Assembly Systems,

Keywords: robot execution, failures data set, force measurement, torque measurement, failure detection, classification accuracy, feature transformation strategies, assembly domain, flexible assembly systems.