vehicle Norm 

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science 

Normalized version of vehicle dataset 

The vehicle silhouettes dataset is designed to classify a given silhouette as one of four types of vehicle, using a set of features extracted from the silhouette. The vehicle may be viewed from one of many different angles.

The problem type is classification.

This dataset was originally gathered at the Turing Institute. The original purpose was to find a method of distinguishing three-dimensional objects within a two-dimensional image by application of an ensemble of shape feature extractors to the two-dimensional silhouettes of the objects.

Measures of shape features extracted from example silhouettes of objects to be discriminated were used to generate a classification rule tree by means of computer induction. This object recognition strategy was successfully used to discriminate between silhouettes of model cars, vans, and buses viewed from constrained elevation but all angles of rotation.

The rule tree classification performance compared favorably to Minimum Distance Classifier and k-Nearest Neighbor statistical classifiers in terms of both error rate and computational efficiency.

An investigation of these rule trees generated by example indicated that the tree structure was heavily influenced by the orientation of the objects, and grouped similar object views into single decisions.

The features were extracted from the silhouettes by the Hierarchical Image Processing System extension Binary Attribute Noise Tolerance System, which extracts a combination of scale-independent features utilizing both classical moments-based measures and heuristic measures.

Four model vehicles were used for the experiment: a double-decker bus, a Chevrolet van, a Saab nine thousand, and an Opel Manta four hundred. This particular combination of vehicles was chosen with the expectation that the bus, van, and either one of the cars would be readily distinguishable, but it would be more difficult to distinguish between the cars.

The images were acquired by a camera looking downwards at the model vehicle from a fixed angle of elevation. The vehicles were placed on a diffuse backlit surface. The vehicles were painted matte black to minimize highlights.

The images were captured using a frame store connected to a computer. All images were captured with a spatial resolution of one hundred twenty-eight by one hundred twenty-eight pixels quantized to sixty-four gray levels. These images were thresholded to produce binary vehicle silhouettes, negated to comply with the processing requirements of Binary Attribute Noise Tolerance System, and thereafter subjected to shrink-expand-expand-shrink Hierarchical Image Processing System modules to remove salt and pepper image noise.

The vehicles were rotated and their angle of orientation was measured using a radial graticule beneath the vehicle. Zero and one hundred eighty degrees corresponded to head-on and rear views respectively, while ninety and two seventy corresponded to profiles in opposite directions.

Two sets of images, each set covering a full three hundred sixty-degree rotation, were captured for each vehicle. The vehicle was rotated by a fixed angle between images. 

There are eighteen attributes:

Compactness
Circularity
Distance Circularity
Radius Ratio 
Pr Axis Aspect Ratio 
Max Length Aspect Ratio
Scatter Ratio 
Elongatedness 
Pr Axis Rectangularity 
Max Length Rectangularity 
Scaled Variance Along Major Axis 
Scaled Variance Along Minor Axis 
Scaled Radius of Gyration 
Skewness About Major Axis 
Skewness About Minor Axis 
Kurtosis About Major Axis 
Kurtosis About Minor Axis 
Hollows Ratio 

Keywords: vehicle recognition, shape feature extraction, image processing, object recognition, classification.