Autism Adult Data 

Tags: Images, Life Science 

Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition associated with significant healthcare costs. Early diagnosis can significantly reduce these costs, which makes it crucial. Unfortunately, waiting times for an ASD diagnosis are lengthy, and current procedures are not cost-effective. The economic impact of autism, combined with the increasing number of ASD cases globally, highlights an urgent need for the development of easily implemented and effective screening methods.

A time-efficient and accessible ASD screening tool is essential to help healthcare professionals determine whether individuals should pursue a formal clinical diagnosis. The rapid growth in the number of ASD cases worldwide necessitates the creation of datasets related to behavioral traits. However, such datasets are rare, making it challenging to perform thorough analyses to improve the efficiency, sensitivity, specificity, and predictive accuracy of the ASD screening process.

Presently, very limited autism datasets associated with clinical or screening are available, and most of them are genetic in nature. Hence, we propose a new dataset related to autism screening of adults, which contains twenty features to be utilized for further analysis, particularly in determining influential autistic traits and improving the classification of ASD cases.

In this dataset, we record ten behavioral features, including scores from the Autism Quotient questionnaire, plus ten individual characteristics that have proven to be effective in detecting ASD cases from controls in behavioral science. These features include Age, Gender, Ethnicity, Jaundice, Autism, Country of Residence, Prior App Usage, Result, Age Description, and Relationship. Additionally, we also include a feature indicating whether the individual has ASD or not.

Keywords: Autistic Spectrum Disorder, ASD Screening, Neurodevelopmental Condition, Healthcare Costs, Behavioral Traits, Genetic Datasets, Autism Diagnosis.