Data Description

This dataset is from the 1999 Computational Intelligence and Learning competition. The data contains measurements of river chemical concentrations and algae densities.

Sources
Original Owner ERUDIT European Network for Fuzzy Logic and Uncertainty Modeling in Information Technology

Date Donated September 

Data Characteristics
This data comes from a water quality study where samples were taken from sites on different European rivers over a period of approximately one year. These samples were analyzed for various chemical substances including nitrogen in the form of nitrates, nitrites, and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, chloride. In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population distributions.

Other Relevant Information
The competition involved the prediction of algal frequency distributions based on the measured concentrations of the chemical substances and the global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size, and its flow velocity.

Data Format
There are a total of examples each containing values. The first values of each data set are the season, the river size, the fluid velocity, and eight chemical concentrations which should be relevant for the algae population distribution. The last values of each example are the distribution of different kinds of algae. These kinds are only a very small part of the whole community, but for the competition, we limited the number to seven. The value zero point zero means that the frequency is very low. The data set also contains some empty fields which are labeled with the string Unknown.

Task Description
Protecting rivers and streams by monitoring chemical concentrations and algae communities. Intelligent Techniques for monitoring water quality using chemical indicators and algae population.

Recent years have been characterized by increasing concern at the impact humans are having on the environment. The impact on the environment of toxic waste, from a wide variety of manufacturing processes, is well known. However, it has become clear that the more subtle effects of nutrient level and chemical balance changes arising from farming land runoff and sewage water treatment also have a serious, but indirect, effect on the states of rivers, lakes, and even the sea.

In temperate climates across the world, summers are characterized by numerous reports of excessive summer algae growth resulting in poor water clarity, mass deaths of river fish from reduced oxygen levels, and the closure of recreational water facilities on account of the toxic effects of this annual algal bloom. Reducing the impact of these human-made changes in river nutrient levels has stimulated much biological research with the aim of identifying the crucial chemical control variables for the biological processes.

During the research study, water quality samples were taken from sites on different European rivers over a period of approximately one year. These samples were analyzed for various chemical substances including nitrogen in the form of nitrates, nitrites, and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, chloride. In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population distributions.

It is well known that the dynamics of the algae community is determined by external chemical environment with one or more factors being predominant. While the chemical analysis is cheap and easily automated, the biological part involves microscopic examination, requires trained manpower, and is therefore both expensive and slow.

Diatoms like Cymbella are major contributors to primary production throughout the world. The diatom reacts with large sensitivity to even small changes in acidity. Over a three-and-a-half-billion-year history, algae have evolved and adapted as primary plant colonizers of almost every known habitat in terrestrial and aquatic environments. They respond very rapidly to human-made environmental changes.

The relationship between the chemical and biological features is complex and can be expected to need the application of advanced techniques. Typical of such real-life problems, the particular data set for the problem contains a mixture of fuzzy qualitative variables and numerical measurement values, with much of the data being incomplete.

The competition task is the prediction of algal frequency distributions based on the measured concentrations of the chemical substances and the global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size, and its flow velocity. 

Keywords: water quality, river chemistry, algae populations, chemical concentrations, environmental monitoring, computational intelligence