**Productivity Prediction of Garment Employees Data Set**

The Garment Industry is a key example of industrial globalization in this modern era. It is a highly labor-intensive industry with many manual processes. Satisfying the huge global demand for garment products is mostly dependent on the production and delivery performance of employees in garment manufacturing companies. Therefore, it is highly desirable among decision makers in the garments industry to track, analyze, and predict the productivity performance of working teams in their factories.

This dataset can be used for regression purposes by predicting the productivity range (zero to one) or for classification purposes by transforming the productivity range (zero to one) into different classes. This dataset includes important attributes of the garment manufacturing process and the productivity of employees, which were collected manually and validated by industry experts.

The dataset includes attributes such as date, day of the week, quarter of the month, associated department, team number, number of workers in each team, number of style changes, targeted productivity set by the authority, standard minute value, work in progress, overtime, financial incentive, idle time, number of idle workers, and actual productivity delivered by workers.

The Garment Industry is a highly labor-intensive industry with many manual processes. Satisfying the huge global demand for garment products is mostly dependent on the production and delivery performance of employees in garment manufacturing companies. Therefore, it is highly desirable among decision makers in the garments industry to track, analyze, and predict the productivity performance of working teams in their factories.

This dataset has missing values. The additional variable information includes date, day of the week, quarter of the month, associated department, team number, number of workers in each team, number of style changes, targeted productivity set by the authority, standard minute value, work in progress, overtime, financial incentive, idle time, number of idle workers, and actual productivity delivered by workers.

Keywords: Garment Industry, Productivity Prediction, Labor-Intensive, Manual Processes, Global Demand, Employee Performance, Manufacturing Companies.