This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets, which consist of one thousand one hundred forty-three features, were formed using Adriana Code software available at www.molecular-networks.com/software/adrianacode. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies, which are listed below. The other datasets were taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

The Carbolenes dataset was taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP two dataset was formed based on the research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two datasets were taken from the research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP dataset was formed based on the research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling in two thousand five.

The Benzo thirty-two dataset was taken from the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The PHENETYL one dataset was taken from the book QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches edited by H. Kubinyi and published by VCH in nineteen ninety-three.

The PAH dataset was formed based on the research published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five.

The PDGFR dataset was taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four.

The Phen dataset was taken from the research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The Topo two one and Yprop four one datasets were taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three.

The QSABR one, QSABR two, QSARTOX, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBRALKS, QSFRDHLA, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, and QSPRCMPX datasets were taken from various studies published between nineteen ninety-seven and two thousand.

The Selwood dataset was taken from the research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Features: 

Keywords: Drug Design, Machine Learning, Mathematics, QSAR, Adriana Code, Molecular Networks