This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets, which contain one thousand one hundred forty-three features, were formed using Adriana Code software available at www.molecular-networks.com/software/adrianacode. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies. 

The Carbolenes dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry. The MTP two dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science. The Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two datasets are related to research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The MTP dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling. The Benzo thirty-two dataset is related to research published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry. The Phenetyle one dataset is related to research published in the book QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches. The PAH dataset is related to research published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems.

The PDGF-R dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science. The Phen dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry. The Topo two one and Y Prop four one datasets are related to research published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science. The QSAR br one, QSAR br two, QSAR tox, QSBR rw one, QSBR y two, QSBR alks, QSFR dhla, QSFS r one, QSFS r two, and QSPr cmplx datasets are related to various research papers on quantitative structure-activity relationships.

The Selwood dataset is related to research published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry. 

Keywords: Drug Design, Adriana Code Software, Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships, Medicinal Chemistry, QSAR.