Accidents on the Rio Niteroi Bridge

Context
About the Rio Niteroi Bridge, according to Wikipedia: The Presidente Costa e Silva Bridge, popularly known as the Rio Niteroi Bridge, is a bridge that crosses Guanabara Bay, in the state of Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil. It connects the municipalities of Rio de Janeiro and Niteroi. Currently, the bridge is the largest in the southern hemisphere in prestressed concrete and the largest in Latin America. The structure receives more than passengers a day, according to information from the Ecoponte concessionaire, on days with normal flows. It is also known as the largest straight span in the world and the largest set of prestressed structures in America.

Content
The data to carry out this research were obtained on the website of the Federal Highway Police, which provides an Open Data session that has no restrictions on licenses, patents or control mechanisms, so that they are freely available for use and redistributed at will. In the Accidents section, it is possible to find accident records in csv format over the years.

Acknowledgements
It is great that this data is public and can present valuable insights to improve people's quality of life.

Inspiration
Some guiding questions about this data: Is the number of accidents on the bridge daily? Have the number of accidents on the bridge decreased? Has the installation of security cameras reduced the number of accidents?

How to Import from Source
See below the code used to import and organize the open data of the site: Load tidyverse. Import available data. Perform data pre-processing in parallel using the foreach package. Save the tidy dataset.

Features
The dataset includes the following features: date, day of the week, time, state, bridge, kilometer, municipality, accident cause, accident type, accident classification, day phase, road sense, weather condition, road type, road layout, land use, year, people involved, deaths, light injuries, severe injuries, unharmed, ignored, injured, vehicles involved, latitude, longitude, region, police station, and police unit.

Keywords: Rio Niteroi Bridge, accidents, open data, Federal Highway Police, Brazil, Guanabara Bay, road safety.