Covertype Dataset
Tags: study

Source: MOA - 

Please cite: Normalized version of the Forest Covertype dataset (see version ), so that the numerical values are between  and . Contains the forest cover type for  x  meter cells obtained from US Forest Service (USFS) Region  Resource Information System (RIS) data. It contains , instances and  attributes, and it has been used in several papers on data stream classification.

Features: Elevation, Aspect, Slope, Horizontal Distance To Hydrology, Vertical Distance To Hydrology, Horizontal Distance To Roadways, Hillshade am, Hillshade Noon, Hillshade pm, Horizontal Distance To Fire Points, Wilderness Area, Wilderness Area, Wilderness Area, Wilderness Area, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, Soil Type, class

Dataset Information
Additional Information
Predicting forest cover type from cartographic variables only (no remotely sensed data). The actual forest cover type for a given observation ( x  meter cell) was determined from US Forest Service (USFS) Region  Resource Information System (RIS) data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from US Geological Survey (USGS) and USFS data. Data is in raw form (not scaled) and contains binary ( or ) columns of data for qualitative independent variables (wilderness areas and soil types).

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices.

Some background information for these four wilderness areas: Neota (area ) probably has the highest mean elevational value of the  wilderness areas. Rawah (area ) and Comanche Peak (area ) would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache la Poudre (area ) would have the lowest mean elevational value.

As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce/fir (type ), while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine (type ) as their primary species, followed by spruce/fir and aspen (type ). Cache la Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa pine (type ), Douglas fir (type ), and cottonwood/willow (type ).

The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache la Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values (elevation, etc.) Cache la Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information
Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database.

Name / Data Type / Measurement / Description
Elevation / quantitative /meters / Elevation in meters
Aspect / quantitative / azimuth / Aspect in degrees azimuth
Slope / quantitative / degrees / Slope in degrees
Horizontal Distance To Hydrology / quantitative / meters / Horizontal Distance to nearest surface water features
Vertical Distance To Hydrology / quantitative / meters / Vertical Distance to nearest surface water features
Horizontal Distance To Roadways / quantitative / meters / Horizontal Distance to nearest roadway
Hillshade am / quantitative /  to  index / Hillshade index at am, summer solstice
Hillshade Noon / quantitative /  to  index / Hillshade index at noon, summer solstice
Hillshade pm / quantitative /  to  index / Hillsh