COVID-19 Dataset with One Hundred World Countries
Tags: Machine Learning, Statistics

This Coronavirus Dataset with One Hundred World Countries is constructed from various reliable sources, where each row represents a country, and the columns represent geographic, climate, healthcare, economic, and demographic factors that may contribute to accelerating or slowing the spread of COVID-19.

The assumptions for the different factors are as follows:

Geography: Some continents or areas may be more affected by the disease due to their location and proximity to each other.
Climate: Cold temperatures may promote the spread of the virus, while hot temperatures might slow it down.
Healthcare: Lack of hospital beds and doctors may lead to more human losses, while adequate medical facilities and personnel may help reduce the number of casualties.
Economy: Weak economies with low Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita may have fewer means to fight the disease, whereas strong economies might have more resources to allocate towards combating the pandemic.
Demography: Older populations may be at higher risk of the disease, and countries with a larger proportion of elderly citizens might experience more severe outbreaks.

The dataset includes information on daily tests performed and the total number of cases and deaths reported each day.

Data Description:

Countries in the dataset are categorized by geographic coordinates into six regions:
Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America, and Oceania.

Statistical Description of the Data:

Data Distribution:
The dataset is available in an encoded CSV format on GitHub.

Python Code:
A Python Jupyter Notebook to read and visualize the data is available on NBViewer.

Data Update:
The dataset is updated regularly with the latest numbers of COVID-19 cases, deaths, and tests.

Data Construction:
The dataset is constructed from various reliable sources, including Our World in Data, Kaggle, and the World Bank.

Citation:
If you wish to use the dataset, please cite the relevant paper.

Contact:
For any questions or suggestions, please reach out to the contact email address.

Features:
Entity, Continent, Latitude, Longitude, Average Temperature per Year, Hospital Beds per One Thousand People, Medical Doctors per One Thousand People, GDP per Capita, Population, Median Age, Population Aged Sixty-Five and Over Percentage, Date, Daily Tests, Cases, Deaths

Keywords: COVID-19, Coronavirus, Machine Learning, Statistics, Dataset, Geographic Coordinates, Climate, Healthcare, Economy, Demography, Daily Tests, Cases, Deaths