Mental Health in Tech Survey
Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning

Dataset Information

This dataset is from a survey that measures attitudes towards mental health and frequency of mental health disorders in the tech workplace. You are also encouraged to analyze data from the ongoing survey found elsewhere.

Content

This dataset contains the following data:

Timestamp - The date and time when the respondent submitted their answers.
Age - The respondent's age.
Gender - The respondent's gender.
Country - The country where the respondent lives.
State - If the respondent lives in the United States, the state or territory where they reside.
Self-Employed - Whether the respondent is self-employed or not.
Family History - Whether the respondent has a family history of mental illness.
Treatment - Whether the respondent has sought treatment for a mental health condition.
Work Interference - If the respondent has a mental health condition, whether they feel it interferes with their work.
Number of Employees - The number of employees in the respondent's company or organization.
Remote Work - Whether the respondent works remotely outside of an office at least fifty percent of the time.
Tech Company - Whether the respondent's employer is primarily a tech company or organization.
Benefits - Whether the respondent's employer provides mental health benefits.
Care Options - Whether the respondent knows the options for mental health care provided by their employer.
Wellness Program - Whether the respondent's employer has ever discussed mental health as part of an employee wellness program.
Seek Help - Whether the respondent's employer provides resources to learn more about mental health issues and how to seek help.
Anonymity - Whether the respondent's anonymity is protected if they choose to take advantage of mental health or substance abuse treatment resources.
Leave - How easy it is for the respondent to take medical leave for a mental health condition.
Mental Health Consequences - Whether the respondent thinks that discussing a mental health issue with their employer would have negative consequences.
Physical Health Consequences - Whether the respondent thinks that discussing a physical health issue with their employer would have negative consequences.
Coworkers - Whether the respondent would be willing to discuss a mental health issue with their coworkers.
Supervisor - Whether the respondent would be willing to discuss a mental health issue with their direct supervisor.
Mental Health Interview - Whether the respondent would bring up a mental health issue with a potential employer in an interview.
Physical Health Interview - Whether the respondent would bring up a physical health issue with a potential employer in an interview.
Mental vs Physical - Whether the respondent feels that their employer takes mental health as seriously as physical health.
Observed Consequences - Whether the respondent has heard of or observed negative consequences for coworkers with mental health conditions in their workplace.
Comments - Any additional notes or comments from the respondent.

Inspiration

Some questions worth exploring include how the frequency of mental health illness and attitudes towards mental health vary by geographic location, and what are the strongest predictors of mental health illness or certain attitudes towards mental health in the workplace?

Keywords: mental health, tech industry, survey, workplace, attitudes, frequency, geographic location, predictors.