QSAR-TID-52 Dataset

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Alpha-2A Adrenergic Receptor.

The features represent FCFP 1024-bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset has 877 rows and 1026 features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

Scraped Data:

The Alpha-2A Adrenergic Receptor is a single protein, also known as ADRA2A, ADRA2R, ADRAR, Alpha-2A Adrenergic Receptor, and Alpha-2A Adrenoceptor.

It belongs to the species group Homo sapiens and is classified as a membrane receptor/family A G protein-coupled receptor/small molecule receptor family A GPCR/monoamine receptor/adrenergic receptor.

Description:
The Alpha-2A Adrenergic Receptor is involved in various biological processes, including positive regulation of cytokine production, DNA replication, regulation of smooth muscle contraction, signal transduction, and G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway.

It is also involved in adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, Ras protein signal transduction, Rho protein signal transduction, female pregnancy, positive regulation of cell population proliferation, and negative regulation of norepinephrine secretion.

Additionally, it plays a role in regulation of vasoconstriction, actin cytoskeleton organization, platelet activation, positive regulation of cell migration, activation of protein kinase activity, activation of protein kinase B activity, negative regulation of epinephrine secretion, and cellular response to hormone stimulus.

Keywords: Alpha-2A Adrenergic Receptor, QSAR, molecular fingerprints, G protein-coupled receptor, signal transduction, adenylate cyclase, Ras protein, Rho protein.