US Real Estate Listings by Zip Code

Tags: Context Real Estate inventory of listings

This dataset provides a comprehensive inventory of real estate listings in the United States, covering the period from 2012 to 2017. It includes data for all real estate listings in the US, such as active listings, prices, days on market, price changes, and pending listings by county.

The median listing price within a specified geography during a specified month is a key metric in this dataset. This metric provides insight into the overall pricing trend in a particular area. Additionally, the active listing count tracks the number of for-sale properties on the market, excluding pending listings where a pending status is available. This count provides a snapshot of the number of active listings that can be expected on any given day of the specified month.

The median days on market metric measures the median number of days property listings spend on the market within a specified geography during a specified month. This metric is defined as the time between the initial listing of a property and either its closing date or the date it is taken off the market.

The new listing count represents the number of new listings added to the market within a specified geography. This count can be multiplied by the number of weeks in a month to produce a monthly new listing count. Furthermore, the price increase count represents the number of listings that have had their price increased within a specified geography. This count can also be multiplied by the number of weeks in a month to produce a monthly price increase count.

The pending listing count tracks the number of pending listings within a specified geography during a specified month, if a pending definition is available for that geography. This count provides a snapshot of the number of pending listings that can be expected on any given day of the specified month.

Acknowledgements
This dataset and other similar datasets can be found on Realtor.com.

Features:
Month, Zip Code, Zip Name, Footnote, Median Listing Price, Median Listing Price Month-over-Month, Median Listing Price Year-over-Year, Active Listing Count, Active Listing Count Month-over-Month, Active Listing Count Year-over-Year, Days on Market, Days on Market Month-over-Month, Days on Market Year-over-Year, New Listing Count, New Listing Count Month-over-Month, New Listing Count Year-over-Year, Price Increase Count, Price Increase Count Month-over-Month, Price Increase Count Year-over-Year, Price Decrease Count, Price Decrease Count Month-over-Month, Price Decrease Count Year-over-Year, Pending Listing Count, Pending Listing Count Month-over-Month, Pending Listing Count Year-over-Year, Average Listing Price, Average Listing Price Month-over-Month, Average Listing Price Year-over-Year, Total Listing Count, Total Listing Count Month-over-Month, Total Listing Count Year-over-Year, Pending Ratio, Pending Ratio Month-over-Month, Pending Ratio Year-over-Year

Keywords: real estate, listings, zip code, median listing price, active listings, days on market, price changes, pending listings.