MetaQSAR Project Dataset: QSAR-TID-11622 

Tags: Machine Learning, MTL QSAR, Statistics, Study Three 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11622. The features represent fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset includes information about the preferred name, synonyms, organism, species group, protein target classification, and description of the target.

The preferred name of the target is Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Two Delta, also known as Cam Kinase Two Delta, Camkd, and CaM Kinase Two Subunit Delta.

The target is classified under the enzyme-kinase-protein kinase group, specifically under the CaM Kinase Two family.

The dataset includes information about the expression atlas, gene ontology components, gene ontology functions, and gene ontology processes related to the target.

The gene ontology components include nucleus, nucleoplasm, cytoplasm, cytosol, plasma membrane, calcium-and-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase complex, membrane, sarcoplasmic reticulum, endocytic vesicle membrane, sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane, sarcolemma, neuron projection, and organelle.

The gene ontology functions include nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine-threonine kinase activity, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity, protein binding, calmodulin binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, sodium channel inhibitor activity, titin binding, identical protein binding, and protein homodimerization activity.

The gene ontology processes include regulation of cell growth, regulation of the force of heart contraction, regulation of membrane depolarization, regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase two, protein phosphorylation, regulation of heart contraction, positive regulation of cardiac muscle hypertrophy, regulation of cell communication by electrical coupling, positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell apoptotic process, and many others.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, statistics, calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase two delta, cam kinase two delta, gene ontology, protein target classification.