This is the original version of the famous Covertype dataset. 

Predicting forest cover type from cartographic variables only (no remotely sensed data). The actual forest cover type for a given observation (thirty by thirty meter cell) was determined from United States Forest Service Region Two Resource Information System data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from United States Geological Survey and United States Forest Service data. 

Data is in raw form (not scaled) and contains binary (zero or one) columns of data for qualitative independent variables (wilderness areas and soil types). 

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices.

Some background information for these four wilderness areas: Neota probably has the highest mean elevational value of the four wilderness areas. Rawah and Comanche Peak would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache La Poudre would have the lowest mean elevational value. As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce/fir, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine as their primary species, followed by spruce/fir and aspen. Cache La Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa pine, Douglas-fir, and cottonwood/willow. 

The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache La Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values (elevation, etc.). Cache La Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Attribute Information: 
Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database.

Elevation is a quantitative measurement in meters, describing elevation in meters. Aspect is a quantitative measurement in azimuth, describing aspect in degrees azimuth. Slope is a quantitative measurement in degrees, describing slope in degrees. Horizontal Distance To Hydrology is a quantitative measurement in meters, describing horizontal distance to nearest surface water features. Vertical Distance To Hydrology is a quantitative measurement in meters, describing vertical distance to nearest surface water features. Horizontal Distance To Roadways is a quantitative measurement in meters, describing horizontal distance to nearest roadway. Hillshade Nine Am is a quantitative measurement, describing hillshade index at nine am, summer solstice. Hillshade Noon is a quantitative measurement, describing hillshade index at noon, summer solstice. Hillshade Three Pm is a quantitative measurement, describing hillshade index at three pm, summer solstice. Horizontal Distance To Fire Points is a quantitative measurement in meters, describing horizontal distance to nearest wildfire ignition points.

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, soil types, Roosevelt National Forest, ecological processes, forest management practices.