The Rio Niteroi Bridge Accident Analysis Dataset 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

Context 
About the Rio Niteroi Bridge, according to Wikipedia: The Presidente Costa e Silva Bridge, popularly known as the Rio Niteroi Bridge, is a bridge that crosses Guanabara Bay, in the state of Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil. It connects the municipalities of Rio de Janeiro and Niteroi. Currently, the bridge is the largest in the southern hemisphere in prestressed concrete and the largest in Latin America. The structure receives more than passengers a day, according to information from the Ecoponte concessionaire, on days with normal flows. It is also known as the largest straight span in the world and the largest set of prestressed structures in America.

Content 
The data to carry out this research were obtained on the website of the Federal Highway Police, which provides an Open Data session that has no restrictions on licenses, patents, or control mechanisms, so that they are freely available for use and redistributed at will. In the Accidents section, it is possible to find accident records in CSV format over the years.

Acknowledgments 
It is great that this data is public and can present valuable insights to improve people's quality of life.

Inspiration 
Some guiding questions about this data include: What is the trend of accidents on the bridge daily? Have the number of accidents on the bridge decreased over time? Has the installation of security cameras reduced the number of accidents?

How to Import from Source 
See below the code used to import and organize the open data of the site:

Load Tidyverse 
Import available data 
Perform data preprocessing in parallel using the foreach package 

Save the Tidy Dataset 
Features include data inverse, day of the week, hour, federal unit, highway, kilometer, municipality, cause of accident, type of accident, classification of accident, phase of day, direction of traffic flow, weather conditions, type of road surface, land use, year, people involved, fatalities, light injuries, severe injuries, uninjured individuals, ignored cases, injured individuals, vehicles involved, latitude, longitude, region, police station, operational unit.

Keywords: Rio Niteroi Bridge, Accident Analysis, Open Data, Federal Highway Police, Prestressed Concrete Structure, Guanabara Bay, Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, Municipality of Niteroi, Latin America, Southern Hemisphere.