QSAR-TID-10371 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10371. The dataset has seventy-eight rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Dual Specificity Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Five, also known as MAP2K5 or MAP Kinase Kinase Five. This protein is a single protein target, and it belongs to the species group Homo sapiens.

The protein target classification is Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase/STE protein kinase group/STE protein kinase STE7 family. The description of this protein is that it is a Dual Specificity Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Five.

The dataset is related to the Expression Atlas, Go Component, Go Function, and Go Process. The Go Function includes nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, MAP kinase kinase activity, protein tyrosine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and metal ion binding. The Go Process includes negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, MAPK cascade, protein phosphorylation, signal transduction, heart development, phosphorylation, positive regulation of cell growth, and many others.

The dataset is also related to Wikipedia, canSAR-Target, GuideToPHARMACOLOGY, IntAct, PharmGKB, Pharos, Reactome, UniProt, InterPro, Pfam, and PDBe.

Keywords: QSAR data, drug target, Dual Specificity Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Five, MAP2K5, protein kinase, enzyme, Homo sapiens, protein phosphorylation, signal transduction.