QSAR-TID-10529 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mu Opioid Receptor, and it has multiple rows and features. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mu Opioid Receptor. The Mu Opioid Receptor is a single protein and its preferred name is Mu Opioid Receptor. It also has several synonyms such as M-OR-one, MOR-one, Mu-type Opioid Receptor, Opioid Receptor B, and Oprm one. The organism is Rattus norvegicus and it belongs to the species group No. The protein target classification is one point Membrane Receptor, Family A G Protein-Coupled Receptor, Peptide Receptor, and Opioid Receptor.

The Mu Opioid Receptor is a membrane receptor and it is involved in various biological processes such as acute inflammatory response to antigenic stimulus, immune response, signal transduction, and G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. It is also involved in adenylate cyclase-activating dopamine receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, and adenylate cyclase-inhibiting G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway.

The receptor is also involved in various cellular components such as endosome, plasma membrane, focal adhesion, and membrane. It is also involved in various molecular functions such as G-protein alpha-subunit binding, G protein-coupled receptor activity, beta-endorphin receptor activity, and voltage-gated calcium channel activity.

Keywords: Mu Opioid Receptor, QSAR, FCFP, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES, Pipeline Pilot, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, ChEMBL, Rattus norvegicus, Membrane Receptor, G Protein-Coupled Receptor, Peptide Receptor, Opioid Receptor.