This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: Seventeen Thousand Fifty Two, and it has fifty-five rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PX C Fifty.

The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systemes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains information about the beta-two adrenergic receptor, which is a single protein preferred name, also known as Adrb two, Adrb two r, beta-two adrenergic receptor, beta-two adrenoceptor, and beta-two adrenoreceptor. It belongs to the species group of Rattus Norvegicus and has a protein target classification of one point membrane receptor family A G protein-coupled receptor small molecule receptor family A GPCR monoamine receptor adrenergic receptor.

The beta-two adrenergic receptor is involved in various biological processes, including response to hypoxia, liver development, regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure by norepinephrine-epinephrine, diet induced thermogenesis, and desensitization of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway by arrestin. It also plays a role in diaphragm contraction, positive regulation of the force of heart contraction by epinephrine, transcription by RNA polymerase two, receptor-mediated endocytosis, smooth muscle contraction, and regulation of smooth muscle contraction.

Furthermore, the beta-two adrenergic receptor is associated with various cellular components, including nucleus, endosome, early endosome, Golgi apparatus, plasma membrane, caveola, apical plasma membrane, axon, dendrite, neuronal cell body membrane, sarcolemma, dendritic spine, receptor complex, postsynaptic membrane, Schaffer collateral - CA one synapse, presynapse, glutamatergic synapse, and neuronal dense core vesicle.

Keywords: QSAR, molecular fingerprints, beta-two adrenergic receptor, G protein-coupled receptor, signal transduction, smooth muscle contraction, receptor-mediated endocytosis.