This dataset is based on the Student Grade Prediction dataset. 

General Information 
The data approach student achievement in secondary education of two Portuguese schools. The data attributes include student grades, demographic, social, and school-related features, and it was collected by using school reports and questionnaires. Two datasets are provided regarding the performance in two distinct subjects: Mathematics and Portuguese Language. 

Important Note 
The target attribute Final Year Grade has a strong correlation with First Period Grade and Second Period Grade. This occurs because Final Year Grade is the final year grade issued at the third period, while First Period Grade and Second Period Grade correspond to the first and second period grades. It is more difficult to predict Final Year Grade without First Period Grade and Second Period Grade, but such prediction is much more useful.

Attribute Information 
Important Note Unlike the original dataset, this one converted all binary values to numerical boolean values. Moreover, it does not have attributes Mother's Job, Father's Job, Reason, Guardian, School, Student's School, which is a binary value indicating whether the student's school is Gabriel Pereira or Mousinho da Silveira.

Student's Sex is a binary value indicating whether the student is Female or Male. Age is the student's age. Address is a binary value indicating whether the student's home address type is Urban or Rural. Family Size is a binary value indicating whether the family size is Less or Equal to Three or Greater Than Three. Parent's Cohabitation Status is a binary value indicating whether the parents are Living Together or Apart.

Mother's Education is the mother's education level. Father's Education is the father's education level. Travel Time is the home to school travel time. Study Time is the weekly study time. Failures is the number of past class failures. Extra Educational Support is a binary value indicating whether the student received extra educational support. Family Educational Support is a binary value indicating whether the family provided educational support.

Extra Paid Classes is a binary value indicating whether the student took extra paid classes within the course subject. Extra Curricular Activities is a binary value indicating whether the student participated in extra curricular activities. Nursery is a binary value indicating whether the student attended nursery school. Higher Education is a binary value indicating whether the student wants to take higher education.

Internet Access is a binary value indicating whether the student has internet access at home. Romantic Relationship is a binary value indicating whether the student is in a romantic relationship. Quality of Family Relationships is the quality of family relationships. Free Time is the amount of free time after school. Going Out is the frequency of going out with friends.

Workday Alcohol Consumption is the frequency of alcohol consumption during workdays. Weekend Alcohol Consumption is the frequency of alcohol consumption during weekends. Health Status is the current health status. Absences is the number of school absences. First Period Grade is the first period grade. Second Period Grade is the second period grade. Final Year Grade is the final year grade.

Pass is a binary value indicating whether the student passed or failed.

Task 
With all attributes except Final Year Grade, please predict Pass.

Keywords: student, grade, prediction, mathematics, portuguese, education, school, demographics, social, family, health, internet, relationships, alcohol, attendance.