Magic Telescope 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

This dataset belongs to the regression on numerical features benchmark. 

The Magic Telescope dataset is a collection of simulated data from a Cherenkov gamma-ray telescope, designed to classify high-energy gamma particles into signal and background events. The data is generated using a Monte Carlo program to simulate the registration of these particles in a ground-based atmospheric Cherenkov gamma telescope. 

Cherenkov gamma telescopes observe high-energy gamma rays by detecting the radiation emitted by charged particles produced inside electromagnetic showers initiated by these gamma rays. This radiation, of visible to ultraviolet wavelengths, leaks through the atmosphere and is recorded by the detector, allowing reconstruction of the shower parameters. 

The available information consists of pulses left by the incoming Cherenkov photons on the photomultiplier tubes, arranged in a plane, the camera. Depending on the energy of the primary gamma, a total of few hundred to several thousand Cherenkov photons are collected, forming patterns, or shower images, that allow discrimination between signal and background events. 

Typically, the image of a shower after preprocessing is an elongated cluster, whose long axis is oriented towards the camera center if the shower axis is parallel to the telescope's optical axis. A principal component analysis is performed in the camera plane, resulting in a correlation axis and defining an ellipse. If the depositions were distributed as a bivariate Gaussian, this would be an equidensity ellipse. 

The characteristic parameters of this ellipse, often referred to as Hillas parameters, are among the image parameters used for discrimination. The energy depositions are typically asymmetric along the major axis, and this asymmetry can also be used in discrimination. Additionally, there are further discriminating characteristics, such as the extent of the cluster in the image plane, or the total sum of depositions. 

Attribute Information:

fLength: length of the major axis of the ellipse 
fWidth: width of the minor axis of the ellipse 
fSize: ten times the logarithm of the sum of the content of all pixels 
fConc: ratio of the sum of the two highest pixels over fSize 
fConc1: ratio of the highest pixel over fSize 
fAsym: distance from the highest pixel to the center, projected onto the major axis 
fM3Long: third root of the third moment along the major axis 
fM3Trans: third root of the third moment along the minor axis 
fAlpha: angle of the major axis with the vector to the origin 
fDist: distance from the origin to the center of the ellipse 

Class labels: gamma (signal) and hadron (background)

Keywords: Cherenkov gamma-ray telescope, Monte Carlo simulation, machine learning, regression, numerical features, gamma particles, background events.