This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The dataset Carbolenes is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. The dataset MTP two is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three. 

The datasets Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two are formed based on the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. 

The dataset MTP is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model in two thousand five. The dataset Benzo thirty-two is formed based on the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. 

The dataset PHENETYL one is formed based on the book QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches published in nineteen ninety-three. The dataset PAH is formed based on the study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five. 

The dataset PDGF-R is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four. The dataset Phen is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two. 

The datasets Topo two one and Y Prop four one are formed based on the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three. 

The datasets QSAR BR one, QSAR BR two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, and QS PR CM PX are formed based on various studies published in different journals. 

The dataset Selwood is formed based on the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Tags: Social Media, Statistics, Study One Thirty

Keywords: Drug Design, Adriana Code, Molecular Descriptors, QSAR, Medicinal Chemistry, Chemical Information.