QSAR-TID-10273 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Type One B Angiotensin II Receptor, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Type One B Angiotensin II Receptor. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. The dataset has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50.

The Type One B Angiotensin II Receptor is a single protein target that is also known as Agtr One B, Angiotensin II Type One Receptor B, At One B, and AT One Receptor B. It is a membrane receptor that belongs to the family A G protein-coupled receptor and peptide receptor family. The receptor is involved in various biological processes including blood vessel development, response to hypoxia, kidney development, and regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure by circulatory renin-angiotensin.

The receptor is also involved in various cellular processes including signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, and positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration. It is also involved in response to various stimuli including nutrient, xenobiotic, salt stress, and immobilization stress.

Keywords: Angiotensin II Receptor, QSAR, FCFP, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES, Pipeline Pilot, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, Membrane Receptor, G Protein-Coupled Receptor, Peptide Receptor, Blood Vessel Development, Kidney Development, Systemic Arterial Blood Pressure.