Coronavirus Worldwide Dataset
Tags: Context From World Health Organization

On the thirty-first of December, two thousand and nineteen, the World Health Organization was alerted to several cases of pneumonia in Wuhan City, Hubei Province of China. The virus did not match any other known virus, which raised concern because when a virus is new, we do not know how it affects people. Therefore, daily level information on the affected people can give some interesting insights when it is made available to the broader data science community.

The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control publishes daily statistics on the COVID-19 pandemic, not just for Europe, but for the entire world. We rely on the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control as they collect and harmonize data from around the world, which allows us to compare what is happening in different countries.

This dataset has daily level information on the number of affected cases, deaths, and recovery, among other parameters, from coronavirus. It also contains various other parameters, such as average life expectancy, population density, and smoking population, which users can find useful in further prediction that they need to make. The data is available from the thirty-first of December, two thousand and nineteen.

The inspiration behind this dataset is to give people weekly data so that they can use it to make accurate predictions.

Features: 
iso code, continent, location, date, total cases, new cases, total deaths, new deaths, total cases per million, new cases per million, total deaths per million, new deaths per million, new tests, total tests, total tests per thousand, new tests per thousand, new tests smoothed, new tests smoothed per thousand, tests per case, positive rate, tests units, stringency index, population, population density, median age, aged sixty-five or older, aged seventy or older, GDP per capita, extreme poverty, cardiovascular death rate, diabetes prevalence, female smokers, male smokers, handwashing facilities, hospital beds per thousand, life expectancy

Keywords: Coronavirus, COVID-19, pandemic, daily statistics, data science, prediction, life expectancy, population density, smoking population.