Phoneme Dataset 

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, OpenML-CC18, OpenML100, Speech Recognition 

The aim of this dataset is to distinguish between nasal (class zero) and oral sounds (class one). Five different attributes were chosen to characterize each vowel: they are the amplitudes of the five first harmonics, normalized by the total energy integrated on all the frequencies. The phonemes are transcribed as follows: the sound "sh" as in "she", "dcl" as in "dark", "iy" as the vowel in "she", "aa" as the vowel in "dark", and "ao" as the first vowel in "water". 

Source 
This dataset was originally hosted by the ELENA Project and originates from the European ESPRIT project: Real-Time Analytical System for French and Spanish Speech Recognition. The dataset was formatted by the KEEL repository.

Relevant Information 
Most existing speech recognition systems are global systems, typically hidden markov models and time delay neural networks, which recognize signals and do not really use the speech specificities. On the other hand, analytical systems take into account the articulatory process leading to the different phonemes of a given language, the idea being to deduce the presence of each of the phonetic features from the acoustic observation. The main difficulty of analytical systems is to obtain acoustic parameters sufficiently reliable. These acoustic measurements must contain all the information relative to the concerned phonetic feature, be speaker-independent, context-independent, and more or less robust to noise.

In the Real-Time Analytical System for French and Spanish Speech Recognition project, the initial database is provided by cochlear spectra, which may be seen as the output of a filter bank having a constant delta F over F zero, where the central frequencies are distributed on a logarithmic scale to simulate the frequency answer of the auditory nerves. The filters outputs are taken every two or eight milliseconds depending on the type of phoneme observed, stationary or transitory. 

The aim of the present database is to distinguish between nasal and oral vowels. There are thus two different classes: class zero, nasals, and class one, orals. This database contains vowels coming from eighteen hundred nine isolated syllables. Five different attributes were chosen to characterize each vowel: they are the amplitudes of the five first harmonics, normalized by the total energy integrated on all the frequencies. Each harmonic is signed: positive when it corresponds to a local maximum of the spectrum and negative otherwise. Three observation moments have been kept for each vowel to obtain five thousand four hundred twenty-seven different instances. From these initial values, twenty-three instances for which the amplitude of the five first harmonics was zero were removed, leading to the five thousand four hundred four instances of the present database. The patterns are presented in a random order.

Keywords: Speech Recognition, Phonemes, Acoustic Measurements, Articulatory Process, Filter Bank.