FOREX EUR/GBP Minute High Tags: finance, forex, forex high, forex minute

Source: Dukascopy Historical Data Feed https://www.dukascopy.com/swiss/english/marketwatch/historical/

Data Description
This is the historical price data of the FOREX EUR/GBP from Dukascopy. One instance, or row, is one candlestick of one minute. The whole dataset has a data range from a specific start date to a specific end date and does not include weekends, since the FOREX is not traded on weekends. The time zone of the feature Timestamp is Europe/Amsterdam.

The class attribute is the direction of the mean of the High Bid and the High Ask of the following minute, relative to the High Bid and the High Ask mean of the current minute. This means the class attribute is True when the mean High price is going up the following minute, and the class attribute is False when the mean High price is going down, or stays the same, the following minute.

Note that this is a hypothetical task, meant for scientific purposes only. Realistic trade strategies can only be applied to predictions on Close attributes, also available.

Attributes
The Timestamp is the time of the current data point, in the Europe/Amsterdam time zone. The Bid Open is the bid price at the start of this time interval. The Bid High is the highest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Low is the lowest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Close is the bid price at the end of this time interval. The Bid Volume is the number of times the Bid Price changed within this time interval. The Ask Open is the ask price at the start of this time interval. The Ask High is the highest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Low is the lowest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Close is the ask price at the end of this time interval. The Ask Volume is the number of times the Ask Price changed within this time interval. The Class is whether the average price will go up during the next interval.

Keywords: FOREX, EUR/GBP, historical price data, candlestick, finance, trading