2018 Airplane Flights Dataset Description Story

To add to my portfolio, I wanted to build a web application to predict the prices of airline flight prices. The user would be able to select an origin and a destination. I found a database from the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. I downloaded their data from the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2018, a total of over twenty-seven million rows and forty-two columns. For my pricing prediction purposes, I eliminated unnecessary columns, renamed some columns, and refined it for consistency, bringing it to a new total of over nine million rows and thirteen columns.

Column Descriptions

The first column, Unnamed, can be dropped as it is a duplicate index column. The ItinID and MktID columns vaguely demonstrate the order in which tickets were ordered, with lower IDs being ordered first. The MktCoupons column represents the number of coupons in the market for that flight. The Quarter column indicates the quarter of the year, either one, two, three, or four, all of which are in 2018. The Origin and Dest columns represent the cities from which the flight begins and ends, respectively. The OriginWac and DestWac columns represent the USA State or Territory World Area Code for the origin and destination, respectively. The Miles column represents the number of miles traveled. The ContiguousUSA column is a binary column indicating whether the flight is in the contiguous forty-eight USA states or not. The NumTicketsOrdered column represents the number of tickets that were purchased by the user. The Airline Company column represents the two-letter airline company code that the user used from start to finish. The PricePerTicket column is the target prediction column.

Airline Company Codes, in order of frequency for this dataset, include Southwest Airlines Co., Delta Air Lines Inc., American Airlines Inc., United Air Lines Inc., JetBlue Airways, Alaska Airlines Inc., Spirit Air Lines, Allegiant Air, Frontier Airlines Inc., Hawaiian Airlines Inc., Sun Country Airlines, and Virgin America.

USA State or Territory World Area Codes include Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, U.S. Pacific Trust Territories and Possessions, and various states.

Keywords: Airline Flight Prices, Web Application, Prediction, Bureau of Transportation Statistics, Airline Company Codes, USA State or Territory World Area Codes.