This dataset is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets were formed using Adriana Code software, which is available online at www.molecular-networks.com/software/adrianacode. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies cited below.

The Carbolenes dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. The MTP two dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three. The Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two datasets were taken from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model in two thousand five. The Benzo thirty-two dataset was taken from a study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. The PHENETYL one dataset was taken from a book titled QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches, which was edited by H. Kubinyi and published by VCH in nineteen ninety-three.

The PAH dataset was taken from a study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five. The PDGFR dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand four. The Phen dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The Topo two one and YProp four one datasets were taken from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three. The QSABR one, QSABR two, QSARTOX, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBRALKS, QSFRDHLS, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, and QSPRCMPX datasets were taken from various studies published between nineteen ninety-five and two thousand.

The Selwood dataset was taken from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Features include ozone one, ozone two, ozone three, and so on up to ozone twenty-two.

Keywords: drug design, Adriana Code, medicinal chemistry, chemical information, QSAR, biodegradability, toxicity, molecular descriptors.