Online Shoppers Intention

Tags: 

The dataset consists of feature vectors belonging to different user sessions over a one-year period, carefully formed to avoid any tendency towards a specific campaign, special day, user profile, or period.

Attribute Information:

The dataset comprises ten numerical and eight categorical attributes. The Revenue attribute can be used as the class label. The number of different types of pages visited by the visitor in that session and total time spent in each of these page categories are represented by Administrative, Informational, Product Related, and their corresponding durations. These features are derived from the URL information of the pages visited by the user and updated in real-time when a user takes an action, such as moving from one page to another.

The Bounce Rate, Exit Rate, and Page Value features represent the metrics measured by Google Analytics for each page in the e-commerce site. The Bounce Rate feature for a web page refers to the percentage of visitors who enter the site from that page and then leave without triggering any other requests to the analytics server during that session. The Exit Rate feature for a specific web page is calculated as the percentage of page views to the page that were the last in the session. The Page Value feature represents the average value for a web page that a user visited before completing an e-commerce transaction.

The Special Day feature indicates the closeness of the site visiting time to a specific special day, such as Mother's Day or Valentine's Day, in which the sessions are more likely to be finalized with a transaction. The value of this attribute is determined by considering the dynamics of e-commerce, such as the duration between the order date and delivery date.

The dataset also includes the operating system, browser, region, traffic type, visitor type as returning or new visitor, a Boolean value indicating whether the date of the visit is a weekend, and the month of the year.

Keywords: online shopping, user sessions, e-commerce, Google Analytics, special days, transaction revenue.