FRED-QD: Quarterly Database for Macroeconomic Research

FRED-MD and FRED-QD are large macroeconomic databases designed for the empirical analysis of big data. The datasets of monthly and quarterly observations mimic the coverage of datasets already used in the literature, but they add three appealing features. They are updated in real-time through the FRED database. They are publicly accessible, facilitating the replication of empirical work. And they relieve the researcher of the task of incorporating data changes and revisions, a task accomplished by the data desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.

The accompanying papers show that factors extracted from the FRED-MD and FRED-QD datasets share comparable information content to various vintages of so-called Stock-Watson datasets. These factor estimates are shown to be useful for forecasting a wide range of macroeconomic series. In addition, we find that diffusion indexes constructed as the partial sum of the factor estimates can potentially be useful for the study of business cycle chronology.

We used the file for quarterly data and performed some preprocessing. Preprocessing involved dropping the first line and transforming each column following the transformation code available in the second line of the file and specified in the original paper. These transformations include no transformation, delta, delta squared, log, delta log, delta squared log, and delta of the growth rate.

We then dropped the first three rows to get rid of NaNs due to the transformations and the last row to only consider dates until a certain year. We standardized the date column to the format year-month-day and renamed it to date. We dropped columns that only have values starting later than a certain date, created a column with a value of zero, and ensured that there are no missing dates and that they are evenly spaced quarterly. We created a column with increasing values of the time step for the time series and renamed columns to value with a number from zero to two hundred. Finally, we casted the id series as a category.

Features include date, id series, and various value columns.

Keywords: macroeconomic research, big data, empirical analysis, forecasting, business cycle chronology.