CNN Stock Prediction NYSE

This dataset covers features from various categories of technical indicators, futures contracts, price of commodities, important indices of markets around the world, price of major companies in the US market, and treasury bill rates. The dataset only contains information from the New York Stock Exchange.

Features include date, close, volume, momentum, rate of change, exponential moving average, treasury bill rates, oil, gold, and major company stock prices such as Apple, Amazon, General Electric, Johnson and Johnson, JPMorgan Chase, Microsoft, Wells Fargo, and ExxonMobil. Additionally, it includes indices from around the world such as the French CAC, German DAX, Hong Kong Hang Seng, Japanese Nikkei, and South Korean KOSPI.

HTRU2

The HTRU2 dataset describes a sample of pulsar candidates collected during the High Time Resolution Universe Survey. Pulsars are a rare type of neutron star that produce radio emission detectable on Earth. They are of considerable scientific interest as probes of space-time, the interstellar medium, and states of matter. As pulsars rotate, their emission beam sweeps across the sky, and when this crosses our line of sight, it produces a detectable pattern of broadband radio emission. As pulsars rotate rapidly, this pattern repeats periodically.

Each pulsar produces a slightly different emission pattern, which varies slightly with each rotation. Thus, a potential signal detection known as a candidate is averaged over many rotations of the pulsar, as determined by the length of an observation. In the absence of additional information, each candidate could potentially describe a real pulsar. However, in practice, almost all detections are caused by radio frequency interference and noise, making legitimate signals hard to find.

Machine learning tools are now being used to automatically label pulsar candidates to facilitate rapid analysis. Classification systems in particular are being widely adopted, which treat the candidate data sets as binary classification problems. Here, the legitimate pulsar examples are a minority positive class, and spurious examples are the majority negative class.

The dataset contains no missing values and includes eight continuous variables and a single class variable. The variables are simple statistics obtained from the integrated pulse profile and the DM-SNR curve. These include the mean, standard deviation, excess kurtosis, and skewness of the integrated profile and the DM-SNR curve.

Keywords: stock market prediction, technical indicators, pulsar candidates, machine learning, classification systems, neutron stars, radio emission.