Ethereum Cryptocurrency Historical Dataset

Tags: Context Ethereum

Ethereum, a decentralized, open-source blockchain featuring smart contract functionality, was proposed in the year two thousand and thirteen. Development was crowdfunded in the year two thousand and fourteen, and the network went live on the thirtieth of July, two thousand and fifteen, with a large number of coins premined.

Some interesting facts about Ethereum: Ether is the native cryptocurrency of the platform. It is the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, after Bitcoin. Ethereum is the most actively used blockchain. Some of the world's leading corporations joined the Ethereum Enterprise Alliance, a collaboration of many blockchain startups, and supported further development. Some of the most famous companies include Samsung SDS, Toyota Research Institute, Banco Santander, Microsoft, J.P. Morgan, Merck GaA, Intel, Deloitte, DTCC, ING, Accenture, Consensys, Bank of Canada, and BNY Mellon.

Content
The dataset consists of Ethereum prices from March to the current date and the dataset will be updated on a weekly basis.

Information regarding the data
The data totally consists of records with seven columns. The description of the features is given below:

Date: Date of the Ethereum prices
Price: Prices of Ethereum in dollars
Open: Opening price of Ethereum on the respective date in dollars
High: Highest price of Ethereum on the respective date in dollars
Low: Lowest price of Ethereum on the respective date in dollars
Volume: Volume of Ethereum on the respective date in dollars
Change: Percentage of Change in Ethereum prices on the respective date

Acknowledgements
The dataset was extracted from investing.com

Inspiration
Experts say that Ethereum has a huge potential in the future. Do you believe it? Well, let's find it by building our own creative models to predict if the statement is true.

Keywords: Ethereum, cryptocurrency, blockchain, smart contract, decentralized, open-source, market capitalization, Bitcoin, Ethereum Enterprise Alliance.