GEMLeR provides a comprehensive collection of gene expression datasets that can be utilized for benchmarking gene expression-oriented machine learning algorithms. These datasets can be employed for estimating different quality metrics, such as accuracy, precision, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, for classification, feature selection, or clustering algorithms.

The inspiration behind creating this repository stemmed from an increasing need in the machine learning and bioinformatics communities for a standardized collection of microarray classification problems that could be used by different researchers. This enables many distinct classification or feature selection techniques to be compared to each other on the same set of problems.

Each gene expression sample in the GEMLeR repository originates from the large, publicly available Expression Project for Oncology (expO) repository by the International Genomics Consortium. The primary objective of expO and its consortium supporters is to procure tissue samples under standardized conditions and perform gene expression analyses on a clinically annotated set of de-identified tumor samples. The tumor data is updated with clinical outcomes and released into the public domain without any intellectual property restrictions. This availability of information translates into direct benefits for patients, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies alike.

The decision to utilize data from the expO repository was made due to several factors, including the consistency of tissue sample processing procedures, the use of the same microarray platform for all samples, the availability of additional information for combined genotype-phenotype studies, and the availability of a large number of samples for different tumor types.

When publishing material based on GEMLeR datasets, please acknowledge the assistance received by using this repository. This will enable others to obtain the same datasets and replicate experiments.

Keywords: gene expression, machine learning, bioinformatics, microarray analysis, oncology, genomics consortium.