Amazon Employee Access 

Tags: Demographics, Government, OpenML100, Study 

Description 

The data consists of real historical data collected over two years. Employees are manually allowed or denied access to resources over time. The data is used to create an algorithm capable of learning from this historical data to predict approval or denial for an unseen set of employees.

Dataset Information 

When an employee at any company starts work, they first need to obtain the computer access necessary to fulfill their role. This access may allow an employee to read or manipulate resources through various applications or web portals. It is assumed that employees fulfilling the functions of a given role will access the same or similar resources. It is often the case that employees figure out the access they need as they encounter roadblocks during their daily work, for example not being able to log into a reporting portal. A knowledgeable supervisor then takes time to manually grant the needed access in order to overcome access obstacles. As employees move throughout a company, this access discovery recovery cycle wastes a significant amount of time and money.

There is a considerable amount of data regarding an employee's role within an organization and the resources to which they have access. Given the data related to current employees and their provisioned access, models can be built that automatically determine access privileges as employees enter and leave roles within a company. These auto-access models seek to minimize the human involvement required to grant or revoke employee access.

Attributes Information 

Action is the target variable, where Action is one if the resource was approved, zero if the resource was not.
Resource is an ID for each resource.
Manager ID is the Employee ID of the manager of the current Employee ID record; an employee may have only one manager at a time.
Role Rollup One is a company role grouping category ID one, for example US Engineering.
Role Rollup Two is a company role grouping category ID two, for example US Retail.
Role Department Name is a company role department description, for example Retail.
Role Title is a company role business title description, for example Senior Engineering Retail Manager.
Role Family Description is a company role family extended description, for example Retail Manager, Software Engineering.
Role Family is a company role family description, for example Retail Manager.
Role Code is a company role code; this code is unique to each role, for example Manager.

Features 
RESOURCE, MGR_ID, ROLE_ROLLUP_ONE, ROLE_ROLLUP_TWO, ROLE_DEPARTMENT_NAME, ROLE_TITLE, ROLE_FAMILY_DESCRIPTION, ROLE_FAMILY, ROLE_CODE, target 

Keywords: employee access, resource allocation, role-based access control, auto-access models, machine learning, prediction, approval, denial.