Magic Telescope 

Tags: Computer Systems, Government 

Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "regression on numerical features" benchmark.

The Magic Telescope dataset simulates registration of high-energy gamma particles in a ground-based atmospheric Cherenkov gamma telescope using the imaging technique. This telescope observes high-energy gamma rays, taking advantage of the radiation emitted by charged particles produced inside the electromagnetic showers initiated by the gammas, and developing in the atmosphere. 

The available information consists of pulses left by the incoming Cherenkov photons on the photomultiplier tubes, arranged in a plane, the camera. Depending on the energy of the primary gamma, a total of a few hundred to some thousand Cherenkov photons get collected, in patterns called the shower image, allowing to discriminate statistically those caused by primary gammas (signal) from the images of hadronic showers initiated by cosmic rays in the upper atmosphere (background).

Typically, the image of a shower after some preprocessing is an elongated cluster. Its long axis is oriented towards the camera center if the shower axis is parallel to the telescope's optical axis, that is, if the telescope axis is directed towards a point source. A principal component analysis is performed in the camera plane, which results in a correlation axis and defines an ellipse. If the depositions were distributed as a bivariate Gaussian, this would be an equidensity ellipse. The characteristic parameters of this ellipse, often called Hillas parameters, are among the image parameters that can be used for discrimination.

The energy depositions are typically asymmetric along the major axis, and this asymmetry can also be used in discrimination. There are, in addition, further discriminating characteristics, like the extent of the cluster in the image plane, or the total sum of depositions.

The dataset was generated by a Monte Carlo program, allowing to observe events with energies down to below fifty gigaelectronvolts.

Attribute Information:

fLength represents the major axis of ellipse in millimeters.
fWidth represents the minor axis of ellipse in millimeters.
fSize represents ten times the logarithm of the sum of content of all pixels in phot.
fConc represents the ratio of sum of two highest pixels over fSize.
fConc1 represents the ratio of highest pixel over fSize.
fAsym represents the distance from highest pixel to center, projected onto major axis in millimeters.
fM3Long represents the cube root of third moment along major axis in millimeters.
fM3Trans represents the cube root of third moment along minor axis in millimeters.
fAlpha represents the angle of major axis with vector to origin in degrees.
fDist represents the distance from origin to center of ellipse in millimeters.
class represents either gamma (signal) or hadron (background).

For technical reasons, the number of hadron events is underestimated. In the real data, the hadron class represents the majority of the events. The simple classification accuracy is not meaningful for this data, since classifying a background event as signal is worse than classifying a signal event as background. For comparison of different classifiers, an ROC curve has to be used. The relevant points on this curve are those, where the probability of accepting a background event as signal is below certain thresholds, depending on the required quality of the sample of the accepted events for different experiments.

Keywords: Cherenkov gamma telescope, gamma particles, electromagnetic showers, Monte Carlo program, Hillas parameters, principal component analysis, ROC curve.