Magic Telescope Dataset

This dataset belongs to the classification on numerical features benchmark. It is a transformed version of the original dataset, which was donated by the Institute of Computer Science, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic.

The data are Monte Carlo generated to simulate the registration of high energy gamma particles in a ground-based atmospheric Cherenkov gamma telescope using the imaging technique. The Cherenkov gamma telescope observes high energy gamma rays, taking advantage of the radiation emitted by charged particles produced inside the electromagnetic showers initiated by the gammas, and developing in the atmosphere. This Cherenkov radiation, of visible to ultraviolet wavelengths, leaks through the atmosphere and gets recorded in the detector, allowing reconstruction of the shower parameters.

The available information consists of pulses left by the incoming Cherenkov photons on the photomultiplier tubes, arranged in a plane, the camera. Depending on the energy of the primary gamma, a total of few hundreds to some thousands of Cherenkov photons get collected, in patterns, allowing to discriminate statistically those caused by primary gammas (signal) from the images of hadronic showers initiated by cosmic rays in the upper atmosphere (background).

Typically, the image of a shower after some preprocessing is an elongated cluster. Its long axis is oriented towards the camera center if the shower axis is parallel to the telescope's optical axis, i.e., if the telescope axis is directed towards a point source. A principal component analysis is performed in the camera plane, which results in a correlation axis and defines an ellipse. If the depositions were distributed as a bivariate Gaussian, this would be an equidensity ellipse. The characteristic parameters of this ellipse, often called Hillas parameters, are among the image parameters that can be used for discrimination.

The energy depositions are typically asymmetric along the major axis, and this asymmetry can also be used in discrimination. There are, in addition, further discriminating characteristics, like the extent of the cluster in the image plane, or the total sum of depositions.

The dataset was generated by a Monte Carlo program, which was run with parameters allowing to observe events with energies down to below a certain threshold.

The dataset consists of eleven attributes, including the class label, which is either gamma (signal) or hadron (background). The class distribution is imbalanced, with the majority of events belonging to the hadron class.

For technical reasons, the number of hadron events is underestimated. In the real data, the hadron class represents the majority of the events. The simple classification accuracy is not meaningful for this data, since classifying a background event as signal is worse than classifying a signal event as background. For comparison of different classifiers, an ROC curve has to be used. The relevant points on this curve are those, where the probability of accepting a background event as signal is below certain thresholds, depending on the required quality of the sample of the accepted events for different experiments.

Keywords: Cherenkov gamma telescope, gamma particles, Monte Carlo simulation, classification, numerical features, imbalanced dataset, ROC curve.