The Friedman Datasets are eighty artificially generated datasets originating from Stochastic Gradient Boosting. 

The dataset names are coded as "Friedman Colinearity Degree Sample Number Feature Number". 

This dataset is one of the most widely used functions for data generation. It includes both linear and nonlinear relations between input and output, and a normalized noise is added to the output. 

The Friedman function is as follows: the output is equal to ten times the sine of pi times the product of the first two inputs plus twenty times the square of the third input minus point five squared plus ten times the fourth input plus five times the fifth input plus the normalized noise.

In the original Friedman function, there are five features for input. To measure the effects of nonrelated features, additional features are added to the datasets. These added features are independent from the output. However, to measure the algorithm's robustness to colinearity, the datasets are generated with five different colinearity degrees. 

The colinearity degree is the number of features depending on other features. The generated Friedman dataset's parameters and values are given below:

The number of features varies from a small set to a large set, including five, ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred, although only the first five features are related to the output; the rest are completely random.

The number of samples also varies, including one hundred, two hundred fifty, five hundred, and one thousand.

Colinearity degrees range from zero to four. 

For the datasets with a colinearity degree of four, the number of features is generated as ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred. The other datasets have five, ten, twenty-five, and fifty features. 

As a result, eighty artificial datasets are generated by combining four different feature numbers, four different sample numbers, and five different colinearity degrees.

The last attribute in each file is the target.

Tags: Artificial, Chemistry, Life Science