QSAR-TID-100413 Tags: Economics, Life Science, MTLQSAR, study_3 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100413, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings.

Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include Molecule ChEMBL ID, multiple FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project, and it was created in September two thousand fifteen.

This dataset is about Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two, also known as BDNF/NT-three Growth Factors Receptor, GP one forty-five TrkB, and Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two, NTRK two, Trk-B.

It is a single protein, and its preferred name is Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two. It belongs to the species group Homo sapiens, and its protein target classification is one point enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/tk protein kinase group/tyrosine protein kinase trk family.

It has multiple synonyms, including BDNF/NT-three Growth Factors Receptor, GP one forty-five TrkB, Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two, NTRK two, and Trk-B.

It has relationships with other proteins, including CHEMBL three five nine six eight four, which is a subset of Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor, and CHEMBL four five two three six two two, which is also a subset of NTRK one slash NTRK two.

It has multiple mechanisms of action, including inhibition of Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two.

It has multiple small molecules associated with it, including AZD-seven four five one, LESTAURTINIB, and PLX-seven four eight six.

It has multiple expression atlas, go components, go functions, and go processes associated with it.

Some of its go components include cytoplasm, endosome, early endosome, cytosol, plasma membrane, endosome membrane, postsynaptic density, membrane, axon, dendrite, early endosome membrane, cell projection, terminal bouton, dendritic spine, receptor complex, axon terminus, synapse, and perinuclear region of cytoplasm.

Some of its go functions include nucleotide binding, protease binding, protein kinase activity, protein tyrosine kinase activity, transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activity, neurotrophin receptor activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and protein homodimerization activity.

Some of its go processes include vasculogenesis, neuron migration, positive regulation of protein phosphorylation, protein phosphorylation, transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase signaling pathway, nervous system development, learning, circadian rhythm, feeding behavior, positive regulation of cell population proliferation, positive regulation of gene expression, and positive regulation of neuron projection development.

Keywords: QSAR, Neurotrophic Tyrosine Kinase Receptor Type Two, MTLQSAR, MetaQSAR, BDNF, NT-three, Growth Factors Receptor, GP one forty-five TrkB, NTRK two, Trk-B, Homo sapiens, Tyrosine Protein Kinase Trk Family.