Parking Statistics in North America 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

About 
This dataset identifies areas within a city where drivers are experiencing difficulty searching for parking. Cities can utilize this data to identify problem areas, adjust signage, and implement other solutions to mitigate congestion and improve traffic flow. Only cities with a substantial population are included.

Data 
Some key variables to highlight include Average Time to Park, which represents the average time taken to search for parking; Average Time to Park Ratio, which compares the average time taken to search for parking to those not searching for parking in the current geographic area; Total Searching, which indicates the number of drivers searching for parking; and Percent Searching, which represents the percentage of drivers that were searching for parking.

Additionally, the dataset includes Average Unique Geographic Hashes, which denotes the average number of unique geographic hashes at a specific level, including neighboring and parking geographic hashes, that were driven in among vehicles that searched for parking. It also includes Average Total Geographic Hashes, which represents the average number of all geographic hashes at a specific level, including neighboring and parking geographic hashes, that were driven in among vehicles that searched for parking.

The Circling Distribution variable provides a detailed representation of the neighboring geographic hashes at a specific level, indicating where vehicles searching for parking tend to spend their time. Each geographic hash has an associated average percentage of time spent in that geographic hash prior to parking. The Hourly Distribution variable offers a detailed representation of the average prevalence of searching for parking by hour of day, based on the number of vehicles experiencing parking problems. The Searching by Hour variable provides a detailed representation of the average percentage of vehicles searching for parking within each hour.

Furthermore, the dataset includes various vehicle type percentages, such as Percentage of Cars, Percentage of Multi-Purpose Vehicles, Percentage of Light Duty Trucks, Percentage of Medium Duty Trucks, Percentage of Heavy Duty Trucks, and Percentage of Other Vehicles.

Content 
This dataset is aggregated over a six-month period and is updated regularly. This data is publicly available from a reputable source.

Inspiration 
Some potential research questions to explore include: Which cities are the most challenging to find parking in? Is there a correlation between a region's population and the time it takes to find parking? Are there any correlations between Gross Domestic Product and parking times? Is there a relationship between average household income and parking times?

Keywords: parking statistics, urban planning, traffic management, geographic analysis, vehicle types