QSAR-TID-11925 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11925. The dataset has ninety-five rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11925. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. The dataset has ninety-five rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

The Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor four is a single protein, also known as CD three hundred thirty-four, FGFR four, FGFR-four, Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor four, JTK two. It is a protein target classification of one enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/tyrosine protein kinase group/tyrosine protein kinase FGFR family.

The Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor four is a protein target classification of one enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/tyrosine protein kinase group/tyrosine protein kinase FGFR family. It is a single protein, also known as CD three hundred thirty-four, FGFR four, FGFR-four, Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor four, JTK two.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project, which aims to provide a comprehensive resource for QSAR modeling. The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11925.

Keywords: QSAR, Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, MetaQSAR project.