The Global Ecological Footprint dataset measures the ecological assets required by a given population to produce the natural resources it consumes, including plant-based food and fiber products, livestock and fish products, timber and other forest products, space for urban infrastructure, and to absorb its waste, especially carbon emissions. The footprint tracks the use of six categories of productive surface areas: cropland, grazing land, fishing grounds, built-up or urban land, forest area, and carbon demand on land.

A nation's biocapacity represents the productivity of its ecological assets, including cropland, grazing land, forest land, fishing grounds, and built-up land. These areas, especially if left unharvested, can also absorb much of the waste we generate, especially our carbon emissions. Both the ecological footprint and biocapacity are expressed in global hectares, which are globally comparable, standardized hectares with world average productivity.

If a population's ecological footprint exceeds the region's biocapacity, that region runs an ecological deficit. Its demand for the goods and services that its land and seas can provide, such as fruits and vegetables, meat, fish, wood, cotton for clothing, and carbon dioxide absorption, exceeds what the region's ecosystems can renew. A region in ecological deficit meets demand by importing, liquidating its own ecological assets, such as overfishing, and/or emitting carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.

On the other hand, if a region's biocapacity exceeds its ecological footprint, it has an ecological reserve. This means that the region is able to produce more resources than it consumes, and can potentially export its surplus to other regions.

The Global Ecological Footprint dataset provides valuable insights into the ecological sustainability of different countries and regions. It allows us to ask important questions, such as: Is your country running an ecological deficit, consuming more resources than it can produce per year? Which countries have the greatest ecological deficits or reserves? Do they consume less or produce more than the average country? When will Earth Overshoot Day, the day on the calendar when humanity has used one year of natural resources, occur?

Features: Country, Region, Population, Human Development Index, Gross Domestic Product per Capita, Cropland Footprint, Grazing Footprint, Forest Footprint, Carbon Footprint, Fish Footprint, Total Ecological Footprint, Cropland, Grazing Land, Forest Land, Fishing Water, Urban Land, Total Biocapacity, Biocapacity Deficit or Reserve, Earth's Required, Countries Required, Data Quality

Keywords: ecological footprint, biocapacity, ecological deficit, ecological reserve, natural resources, sustainability, Earth Overshoot Day.