This is a supervised learning challenge in machine learning, where thirty datasets are made available, all preformatted in given feature representations. Each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients, and the challenge is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention.

The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, and various metrics of evaluation. The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, including medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, and action recognition in video data.

While existing machine learning toolkits include methods that can solve all these problems, it is still considerable human effort to find the combination of methods and hyperparameter settings that is best suited for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time. The goal is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the human in the loop.

This is a challenge with code submission, where code will be executed automatically on servers to train and test learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, as half of the prizes can be won by submitting prediction results.

There are six rounds, each introducing datasets of progressive difficulty, with five datasets per round. Participation in previous rounds is not required to enter a new round. The rounds alternate between automated machine learning phases, where submitted code is blind-tested in limited time on the platform using unseen datasets, and tweakathon phases, which provide time to improve methods by tweaking them on those datasets and running them on personal systems without computational resource limitations.

Dataset: dilbert
Tags: ChaLearn, Images, Social Media, Study

Keywords: Supervised Learning, Machine Learning, Automated Machine Learning, Classification, Regression, Datasets, Feature Representations