Places 

Tags: places 

This dataset is taken from the Places Rated Almanac, copyrighted and published by Rand McNally. This book is available for purchase and retails with the request that the copyright notice of Rand McNally, and the names of the publishers appear in any paper or presentation using these data.

The nine rating criteria used by Places Rated Almanac are climate and terrain, housing, health care and environment, crime, transportation, education, the arts, recreation, and economics. For all but two of the above criteria, the higher the score, the better. For housing and crime, the lower the score the better.

The scores are computed using the following component statistics for each criterion. Climate and terrain includes very hot and very cold months, seasonal temperature variation, heating and cooling degree days, freezing days, zero degree days, and ninety degree days. Housing includes utility bills, property taxes, and mortgage payments.

Health care and environment includes per capita physicians, teaching hospitals, medical schools, cardiac rehabilitation centers, comprehensive cancer treatment centers, hospices, insurance hospitalization costs index, fluoridation of drinking water, and air pollution. Crime includes violent crime rate and property crime rate.

Transportation includes daily commute, public transportation, interstate highways, air service, and passenger rail service. Education includes pupil teacher ratio in the public K-12 system, effort index in K-12, academic options in higher education.

The arts include museums, fine arts and public radio stations, public television stations, universities offering a degree or degrees in the arts, symphony orchestras, theaters, opera companies, dance companies, and public libraries.

Recreation includes good restaurants, public golf courses, certified lanes for tenpin bowling, movie theaters, zoos, aquariums, family theme parks, sanctioned automobile race tracks, pari-mutuel betting attractions, major and minor league professional sports teams, NCAA Division I football and basketball teams, miles of ocean or great lakes coastline, inland water, national forests, national parks, or national wildlife refuges, consolidated metropolitan statistical area access.

Economics includes average household income adjusted for taxes and living costs, income growth, and job growth.

The data are recorded in two ASCII files. The first file contains three hundred twenty-nine observations, nine columns plus an index column. The index stands for the location. The second file gives the index in the first column and the associated name of the place in the second column. All data analysis can be done with numeric variables and the index, as read in from the first file. Alternatively, the numerical key can be replaced by the alphabetic name, as given by the second file.

Keywords: Places Rated Almanac, climate, housing, healthcare, crime, transportation, education, arts, recreation, economics