User Knowledge Modeling Data Set

It is a real dataset about the students' knowledge status regarding the subject of Electrical DC Machines. This dataset was obtained from a PhD thesis.

The dataset had been created by the faculty members of Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey, and Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey. The creators collected data from undergraduate students of the Department of Electrical Education of Gazi University in the two thousand nine semester.

Data Set Information:

The users' knowledge class was classified using an intuitive knowledge classifier, a hybrid machine learning technique of k-nearest neighbor and meta-heuristic exploring methods. For more details on how the users' data was collected and evaluated by the user modeling server, see the relevant papers.

Attribute Information:

Study Time for Goal Object Materials represents the degree of study time for goal object materials, which is an input value. Repetition Number of User for Goal Object Materials represents the degree of repetition number of user for goal object materials, which is also an input value. Study Time of User for Related Objects with Goal Object represents the degree of study time of user for related objects with goal object, another input value. Exam Performance of User for Related Objects with Goal Object represents the exam performance of user for related objects with goal object, yet another input value. Exam Performance of User for Goal Objects represents the exam performance of user for goal objects, again an input value. Knowledge Level of User represents the knowledge level of user, which is the target value.

Relevant Papers:

Developing Intuitive Knowledge Classifier and Modeling of Users' Domain Dependent Data in Web, Knowledge Based Systems, volume thirty-seven, pages two eighty-three to two ninety-five. Designing and Application of Web-Based Adaptive Intelligent Education System, Gazi University PhD Thesis, Turkey.

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science

Features: Study Time for Goal Object Materials, Repetition Number of User for Goal Object Materials, Study Time of User for Related Objects with Goal Object, Exam Performance of User for Related Objects with Goal Object, Exam Performance of User for Goal Objects

Keywords: User Knowledge Modeling, Electrical DC Machines, Machine Learning, Hybrid Technique, Knowledge Classifier, Education System