The Diabetes 130-Hospitals dataset represents ten years of clinical care at one hundred thirty US hospitals and delivery networks, collected from nineteen ninety-nine to two thousand eight. Each record represents the hospital admission record for a patient diagnosed with diabetes whose stay lasted between one to fourteen days. The features describing each encounter include demographics, diagnoses, diabetic medications, number of visits in the year preceding the encounter, and payer information, as well as whether the patient was readmitted after release, and whether the readmission occurred within thirty days of the release.

The dataset was originally collected in two thousand fourteen and this version was derived by the Fairlearn team for the SciPy two thousand twenty-one tutorial "Fairness in AI Systems: From social context to practice using Fairlearn". In this version, the target variable "readmitted" is binarized into whether the patient was re-admitted within thirty days.

The instances in this dataset represent hospitalized patient records diagnosed with diabetes. There is no recommended data split, but the standard train-test split could be used. Alternatively, a three-way holdout split, that is, train-validation-test, could be used when doing model selection.

The dataset contains information that might be considered sensitive, including age, gender, and race of the patients. The dataset represents ten years of clinical care at one hundred thirty US hospitals and integrated delivery networks. It includes over fifty features representing patient and hospital outcomes. Information was extracted from the database for encounters that satisfied certain criteria, including that it is an inpatient encounter, a hospital admission, it is a diabetic encounter, that is, one during which any kind of diabetes was entered into the system as a diagnosis, the length of stay was at least one day and at most fourteen days, laboratory tests were performed during the encounter, and medications were administered during the encounter.

The data contains attributes such as patient demographics, admission type, time in hospital, medical specialty of admitting physician, number of lab tests performed, diagnosis, number of medications, diabetic medications, number of outpatient, inpatient, and emergency visits in the year before the hospitalization, and more.

The dataset has missing values. A detailed description of all the attributes is provided in a separate table.

Keywords: diabetes, hospital, patient, readmission, fairness, AI systems.