Bike Sharing Demand 

Tags: Machine Learning, Statistics 

This dataset is part of the classification on numerical features benchmark and was transformed in the same way as the original dataset. 

Bike sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the entire process, from membership to rental and return, has become automated. Through these systems, users are able to easily rent a bike from one location and return it to another. There are currently over five hundred bike-sharing programs around the world, comprising over five hundred thousand bicycles. Due to their significant impact on traffic, environmental, and health issues, there is considerable interest in these systems. 

Apart from their fascinating real-world applications, the characteristics of the data generated by these systems make them appealing for research purposes. Unlike other transportation services, such as buses or subways, the duration of travel, departure, and arrival positions are explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature transforms bike sharing systems into virtual sensor networks that can be utilized for sensing mobility within cities. As a result, it is anticipated that most important events occurring in cities could be detected through monitoring these data.

The bike-sharing rental process is highly correlated to environmental and seasonal settings. Factors such as weather conditions, precipitation, day of the week, season, and hour of the day can significantly influence rental behaviors. The core dataset is derived from a two-year historical log corresponding to the years 2011 and 2012 from the Capital Bikeshare system in Washington D.C., USA, which is publicly available.

We aggregated the data on a two-hourly and daily basis and then extracted and added corresponding weather and seasonal information. Weather information was obtained from online sources.

Attributes include season, year, month, hour, whether the day is a holiday, day of the week, whether the day is a working day, weather situation, normalized temperature, feeling temperature, normalized humidity, normalized wind speed, count of casual users, count of registered users, and count of total rental bikes.

Keywords: bike sharing, machine learning, statistics, classification, numerical features, traffic, environment, health.