Water Treatment Study

Source: Unknown - Date unknown

Please cite:
Title: Faults in a urban waste water treatment plant

Source Information:
Creators: Unitat d'Enginyeria Quimica Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona. Bellaterra. Barcelona; Spain
Donor: Dept. Llenguatges i Sistemes Informatics; Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya. Barcelona; Spain
Date: June, 1993

Past Usage:
"Avaluacio de tecniques de classificacio per a la gestio de Bioprocessos: Aplicacio a un reactor de fangs activats" Master Thesis. Dept. de Quimica. Unitat d'Enginyeria Quimica. Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona. Bellaterra (Barcelona). 1993.
Results: Comparison between the classification of plant situations using cluster analysis and conceptual clustering. The induced classes are exposed and contrasted.

"LINNEO+: A Classification Methodology for Ill structured Domains". Research report RT 93 10 R. Dept. Llenguatges i Sistemes Informatics. Barcelona. 1993.
Results: The conceptual clustering algorithm used in the first reference is exposed. Some results are given about the use of a priori expert knowledge to bias the classification process in the plant domain.

"A knowledge based system for the diagnosis of waste water treatment plant". Proceedings of the 5th international conference of industrial and engineering applications of AI and Expert Systems IEA/AIE 92. Ed Springer Verlag. Paderborn, Germany, June 92.
Results: Explanation of the waste water treatment plant diagnosis problems Not directly related to the dataset.

Relevant Information:
This dataset comes from the daily measures of sensors in a urban waste water treatment plant. The objective is to classify the operational state of the plant in order to predict faults through the state variables of the plant at each of the stages of the treatment process. This domain has been stated as an ill structured domain.

Number of instances: 527
Number of Attributes: 38
There are some missing values, all are unknown information.

Attribute Information:
All attributes are numeric and continuous

Statistics:
Minimum, maximum, mean, and standard deviation values are provided for each attribute.

Missing Attribute Values:
The number of missing values for each attribute is listed.

Class Distribution:
These are the classes induced by the conceptual clustering algorithm:

Class 1: Normal situation
Class 2: Secondary settler problems 1
Class 3: Secondary settler problems 2
Class 4: Secondary settler problems 3
Class 5: Normal situation with performance over the mean
Class 6: Solids overload 1
Class 7: Secondary settler problems 4
Class 8: Storm 1
Class 9: Normal situation with low influent
Class 10: Storm 2
Class 11: Normal situation
Class 12: Storm 3
Class 13: Solids overload 2

Comments to the data file:
The first element of each line is the day of the data, the rest are the attribute values

Information about the dataset
CLASSTYPE: numeric
CLASSINDEX: none specific

Keywords: wastewater treatment, fault detection, sensor data, urban waste, operational state classification, conceptual clustering, environmental monitoring