Corporate Credit Rating

A corporate credit rating expresses the ability of a firm to repay its debt to creditors. Credit rating agencies are the entities responsible to make the assessment and give a verdict. When a big corporation from the US or anywhere in the world wants to issue a new bond, it hires a credit agency to make an assessment so that investors can know how trustworthy the company is. The assessment is based especially on the financial indicators that come from the balance sheet.

Some of the most important agencies in the world are Moody's, Fitch, and Standard and Poor's.

Content

A list of credit ratings issued by major agencies such as Standard and Poor's to big US firms traded on NYSE or Nasdaq from 2010 to 2016. There are thirty features for every company, of which twenty-five are financial indicators. They can be divided into Liquidity Measurement Ratios, Profitability Indicator Ratios, Debt Ratios, Operating Performance Ratios, and Cash Flow Indicator Ratios.

The financial indicators include current ratio, quick ratio, cash ratio, days of sales outstanding, net profit margin, pretax profit margin, gross profit margin, operating profit margin, return on assets, return on capital employed, return on equity, asset turnover, fixed asset turnover, debt equity ratio, debt ratio, effective tax rate, free cash flow operating cash flow ratio, free cash flow per share, cash per share, company equity multiplier, ebit per revenue, enterprise value multiple, operating cash flow per share, operating cash flow sales ratio, and payables turnover.

The additional features are name, symbol for trading, rating agency name, date, and sector.

The dataset is unbalanced.

Acknowledgements

This dataset was possible thanks to financial modeling prep and open data soft of the sources of the data.

Keywords: corporate credit rating, credit rating agencies, financial indicators, liquidity measurement, profitability indicator, debt ratio, operating performance, cash flow indicator.