COIL Two Thousand Training Set

This is the training set of the COIL Two Thousand challenge, which was used by researchers in twenty twenty. 

Source:

Original Owner and Donor: Sentient Machine Research 

Baarsjesweg Two Twenty Four, One Zero Five Eight AA Amsterdam 

The Netherlands 

Data Set Information:

Information about customers consists of eighty-six variables and includes product usage data and socio-demographic data derived from zip area codes. The data was supplied by the Dutch data mining company Sentient Machine Research and is based on a real-world business problem. 

The training set contains over five thousand descriptions of customers, including the information of whether or not they have a caravan insurance policy. A test set contains four thousand customers of whom only the organizers know if they have a caravan insurance policy.

The data dictionary describes the variables used and their values. 

Note: All the variables starting with M are zipcode variables. They give information on the distribution of that variable, for example, Rented House, in the zipcode area of the customer.

One instance per line with tab-delimited fields.

Ticdata Two Thousand Txt: Dataset to train and validate prediction models and build a description (five thousand eight hundred twenty-two customer records). Each record consists of eighty-six attributes, containing sociodemographic data (attribute one to forty-three) and product ownership (attributes forty-four to eighty-six). 

The sociodemographic data is derived from zip codes. All customers living in areas with the same zip code have the same sociodemographic attributes.

Attribute eighty-six, Caravan Number of Mobile Home Policies, is the target variable.

Ticeval Two Thousand Txt: Dataset for predictions (four thousand customer records). It has the same format as Ticdata Two Thousand Txt, only the target is missing. 

Participants are supposed to return the list of predicted targets only.

All datasets are in tab-delimited format. 

The meaning of the attributes and attribute values is given below.

 TicTGTS Two Thousand Txt: Targets for the evaluation set.

Attribute Information:

Data Dictionary.

Data is copyrighted Sentient Machine Research Two Thousand. 

This dataset is owned and supplied by the Dutch datamining company Sentient Machine Research, and is based on real-world business data.

You are allowed to use this dataset and accompanying information for non-commercial research and education purposes only.

It is explicitly not allowed to use this dataset for commercial education or demonstration purposes.

Please cite acknowledge.

References and Further Information:

There is a special website for this benchmark at http://www.liacs.nl/~putten/library/cc2000/.

On the website, you can find an online report featuring twenty-nine papers written by participants in the COIL Challenge Two Thousand and further background information.

In future, more papers will be added to the website.

If you have any submissions, please send them to putten@liacs.nl.

Keywords: COIL, Insurance, Customers, Caravan, Policy, Prediction, Model, Training, Test, Dataset, Business, Problem, Research, Education.