Integrated Household Living Conditions Survey 

Title: Enquête Intégrale sur les Conditions de Vie des Ménages 

Tags: Overview, Identification, Country, Rwanda 

This is the third in a series of periodic standardized income and expenditure surveys. The Rwanda EICV is conducted with a periodicity of five years. The surveys in the series are as follows: EICV one, EICV two, and EICV three.

The date of this version corresponds to the date of NISR approval of the final public-use datasets.

Overview 
Abstract 
The two thousand ten/twenty eleven Integrated Household Living Conditions Survey or EICV three is the third in the series of surveys which started in two thousand and is designed to monitor poverty and living conditions in Rwanda. The survey methodology has changed little over its ten years, making it ideal for monitoring changes in the country. In two thousand ten/twenty eleven, for the first time the achieved sample size of fourteen thousand three hundred eight households in the EICV three was sufficient to provide estimates which are reliable at the level of the district.

Kind of Data 
Sample survey data 

Units of Analysis 
For the purposes of this study, the following units of analysis are considered: communities, households, and persons.

Scope 
Notes 
The scope of survey is defined by the need to evaluate poverty determinants and effects of poverty in various domains. This includes gathering data in specific sectors and examining summary statistics and computed indicators by consumption indicator, gender, and so forth. The survey primarily seeks to compute household consumption aggregates and correlate consumption to the following areas, which are within the scope and integrated into the survey: Education, including education expenditures, general education, curriculum, vocational training, and higher learning; Health, including health expenditures, disability and health problems, general health, and preventative vaccination over the past twelve months; Migration, including travel expenditures, rural-urban migration, internal and external migration; Housing, including expenditures on utilities, rent, and so forth, status of the housing occupancy, services and installations, physical characteristics of the dwelling, access and satisfaction towards basic services; Economic Activity, including revenue, unemployment, underemployment, and job search, occupation, wage or salaried employment characteristics; Non-Agricultural Activities, including revenue, activity status, formal and informal sector activity; Agriculture, including income and expenditure, livestock, land, and agricultural equipment, details of holding parcels/blocs, and agricultural policy changes, crop harvests, and use on a large and small scale crop production, harvests, and use, transformation (processing) of agricultural products. 

In addition to the specific sector information, consumption and/or wealth holding information was collected: Consumption, including expenditure on non-food items, food expenditure, subsistence farming (own consumption) with different recall periods; Other Cash Flows, including transfers out by household, transfers received by the household, income support programs, other revenues (excluding all incomes accrued from saving); Stock Items, including credit, durable assets, and savings (household assets and liabilities).

Topics 
Topic Vocabulary 
Consumption/Consumer Behaviour 
Economic Conditions and Indicators 
Education 
General Health 
Employment 
Unemployment 
Housing 
Time Use 
Migration 
Information Technology 

Coverage 
Geographic Coverage 
This is a national survey with representativity at the provincial and district levels and includes urban and rural households.

Geographic Unit 
The cluster 

Universe 
All household members.

Producers and Sponsors 
Primary Investigator 
National Institute of Statistics of Rwanda (NISR)
Ministry of Finance and Economics Planning (MINECOFIN)

Other Producer 
Oxford Policy Management 
DFID 
Permanente Assistance 

Metadata Production 
Metadata Produced By 
Developed the document 
Reviewed and Edited Document 
Revision of Metadata 

Date of Metadata Production 

DDI Document Version 
Version one point zero 
This version of the document represents the first draft of the public-use dataset of the EICV three study.
Version one point one 
Changed the title from French into English 

DDI Document ID 

Keywords: Rwanda, Poverty, Living Conditions, Household Survey, Income, Expenditure.