Human normal and cancer hepatocytes (cell line HepG2s) were treated with seven stimuli that are relevant to hepatocyte physiology. For each applied stimulus, seven selective inhibitors that block the activity of specific molecules were applied independently, meaning only one inhibitor at a time. For each combination of stimulus-inhibitor, the concentration of seventeen intracellular phospho-protein molecules were measured at three time points after stimulation. Additionally, for each combination of stimulus-inhibitor, the extra-cellular concentration of twenty cytokines released by the cells were measured at three time points after stimulation.

The experimental design is shown schematically in Figure one, where the data for either a phospho-protein or a cytokine data is exemplified. The data is contained in two spreadsheets, one for the phosphorylation data and one for the cytokine release data. The data is structured according to the following format: in both files, the first column contains the cell type (normal or cancer), the second column specifies the stimulus, the third column lists the inhibitor, and the fourth column contains the time of data acquisition in minutes. From column five onwards, the file for phosphorylation data contains the abundance of the seventeen phospho-proteins in arbitrary fluorescence units, and in the order given in Table one c. From column five onwards, the file for cytokine release data contains the abundance of the twenty measured extracellular cytokines in arbitrary fluorescence units, and in the order given in Table one d. The values that have to be predicted have been replaced in the data files by the text "predict".

Useful information regarding measurements includes data integrity and linearity. Significant effort was dedicated to ensuring data integrity, and the data are reported as arbitrary fluorescence units in a certain range. Experiments were performed in such a way that measurements are as much as possible within the linear range of the detector. In general, data can be considered linear, but there are a few cases where measurements are closer to the upper detection limit, where linearity might have been lost. 

Additionally, detection limits and repeatability were also considered. The coefficient of variation for repeated measurements was found to be approximately eight percent, mostly due to biological error. With the current experimental design, the instrument detector can report data with accuracy as low as a certain level. For example, changes from a certain level to another level cannot be considered a significant increase because values lie within the noise error of the detector. 

Inhibitor effects also need to be considered. There are cases in which the inhibitors target molecules whose phosphorylation is being measured. In the case where the inhibitor is present, the phosphorylation state of the corresponding molecule should be assumed absent, and the phosphorylation value should not be used. This known inhibitor effect is more pronounced on the allosteric inhibitors. The effects of the inhibitors are indirectly corroborated from the phosphorylation state of their downstream targets.

Any additional prior data already present in the literature can be used, especially if a model of the network is needed as part of a method to predict the excluded data.

Features: Cell Type, Stimulus, Inhibitor, Time of Data Acquisition, AKT, ERK, GSK, IKB, JNK, P, P, P, STAT, CJUN, CREB, HistH, HSP, IRS, MEK, P, STAT

Keywords: phosphoproteins, hepatocytes, stimuli, inhibitors, phosphorylation, cytokines, machine learning, graph models.