This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The Cristalli dataset is one of the datasets taken from the original studies. The original study is about molecular descriptors influencing melting point and their role in classification of solid drugs.

Other datasets are also taken from the original studies. These include Carbolenes, MTP Two, Chang, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two. These datasets are about neighborhood behavior, which is a useful concept for validation of molecular diversity descriptors.

Some datasets are about melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks. Others are about syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six-alkoxyimidazo one two b pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor.

There are also datasets about weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors, part two theory development and applications on modeling physicochemical properties of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Another dataset is about the development of linear ensemble and non-linear models for the prediction and interpretation of the biological activity of a set of PDGF receptors inhibitors.

Some datasets are about interrelationship of regression models used for structure-activity analyses. There are also datasets about predictive toxicology benchmarking molecular descriptors and statistical methods.

Other datasets are about quantitative structure-activity relationships for toxicity and biodegradability of anilines and phenols, acute toxicity of saturated and unsaturated halogenated aliphatic compounds, structure-biodegradability relationships for chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans, mechanism-based quantitative structure-biodegradability relationships, and quantitative structure-function relationships of single-point mutants of haloalkane dehalogenase.

Keywords: drug design, molecular descriptors, melting point, artificial neural networks, pharmacological evaluation, molecular modeling, quantitative structure-activity relationships, biodegradability, toxicology, statistical methods.