Part of the Infrared Astronomical Satellite Low Resolution Spectrometer Database 

Sources 

The Infrared Astronomical Satellite Project Database 

Past Usage 

Unknown -- a research group concerned with unsupervised learning tasks may have used this database during their empirical studies of their algorithm/system. 

Relevant Information 

The Infrared Astronomical Satellite was the first attempt to map the full sky at infrared wavelengths. This could not be done from ground observatories because large portions of the infrared spectrum are absorbed by the atmosphere. The primary observing program was the full high-resolution sky mapping performed by scanning at four frequencies. The Low Resolution Observation program observed high-intensity sources over two continuous spectral bands. This database derives from a subset of the higher-quality Low Resolution Observations taken between twelve hours and twenty-four hours right ascension. 

This database contains five hundred thirty-one high-quality spectra derived from the Low Resolution Observations database. The original data contained one hundred spectral measurements in each of two overlapping bands. Of these, forty-four blue band and forty-nine red band channels contain usable flux measurements. Only these are included here. The original spectral intensities values are compressed, and each spectrum includes five rescaling parameters. We have used the Low Resolution Observations specified algorithm to rescale these to units of spectral intensity. Total intensity differences have been eliminated by normalizing each spectrum to a mean value. 

This database was originally obtained for use in development and testing of an AutoClass system for Bayesian classification. We have not retained any results from this development, having concentrated our efforts on a larger version of the same data. Our classifications were based upon simultaneous modeling of all ninety-three spectral intensities. With the larger database, we were able to find classes that correspond well with known spectral types associated with particular stellar types. We also found classes that match with the spectra expected of certain stellar processes under investigation. These classes have considerably enlarged the set of stars being investigated.

Original Data 

The original Fortran data file is given. The file contains information about the data file contents and how to rescale the compressed spectral intensities. 

Number of Instances 

Five hundred thirty-one 

Number of Attributes 

One hundred three 

Attribute Information 

Low Resolution Spectrometer Name 
Low Resolution Spectrometer Class 
Identification Type 
Right Ascension 
Declination 
Scale Factor 
Blue Base One 
Blue Base Two 
Red Base One 
Red Base Two 
Forty-four Blue Band Flux Measurements 
Forty-nine Red Band Flux Measurements 

UCI 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Low+Resolution+Spectrometer 

Features 

Low Resolution Spectrometer Name, Low Resolution Spectrometer Class, Identification Type, Right Ascension, Declination, Scale Factor, Blue Base One, Blue Base Two, Red Base One, Red Base Two, Forty-four Blue Band Flux Measurements, Forty-nine Red Band Flux Measurements 

Keywords: Infrared Astronomical Satellite, Low Resolution Spectrometer, Bayesian Classification, Stellar Types, Spectral Intensities, Astronomical Longitude, Astronomical Latitude.