Dorothea Tags: Dorothea is a drug discovery dataset. Chemical compounds represented by structural molecular features must be classified as active (binding to thrombin) or inactive. This is one of five datasets of the NIPS feature selection challenge.

The dataset with which Dorothea was created is one of the KDD Cup. The original dataset and papers of the winners of the competition are available at the KDD Cup website. The data set was graciously provided by DuPont Pharmaceuticals Research Laboratories for the KDD Cup competition. All publications referring to analysis of this data set should acknowledge DuPont Pharmaceuticals Research Laboratories and KDD Cup.

Data Set Information: Drugs are typically small organic molecules that achieve their desired activity by binding to a target site on a receptor. The first step in the discovery of a new drug is usually to identify and isolate the receptor to which it should bind, followed by testing many small molecules for their ability to bind to the target site. This leaves researchers with the task of determining what separates the active compounds from the inactive ones. Such a determination can then be used in the design of new compounds that not only bind, but also have all the other properties required for a drug, such as solubility, oral absorption, lack of side effects, appropriate duration of action, toxicity, and so on.

The original data were modified for the purpose of the feature selection challenge. In particular, we added a number of distractor features called probes having no predictive power. The order of the features and patterns were randomized.

Dorothea consists of positive examples, negative examples, and total examples. We mapped active compounds to the target value positive and inactive compounds to the target value negative.

The dataset contains real features and probes, totaling one hundred thousand features. The features are represented by V followed by a number, but they are not human-readable.

The dataset is split into training, validation, and test sets. Target values are provided only for the training and validation sets. Test set performance results are obtained by submitting prediction results to the NIPS feature selection challenge website.

The data are in the following format: data name parameters and statistics about the data, data name features identities of the features, data name training data training set, data name validation data validation set, data name test data test set, data name training labels labels for training examples, data name validation labels validation set labels, and data name test labels test set labels.

Has Missing Values? No

Keywords: drug discovery, feature selection, chemical compounds, thrombin, receptor binding, KDD Cup, NIPS challenge.