QSAR-TID-100186 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Fibroblast Activation Protein Alpha, and it has multiple rows and features. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Fibroblast Activation Protein Alpha. Fibroblast Activation Protein Alpha is a single protein, also known as 170 kDa melanoma membrane-bound gelatinase, Antiplasmin-cleaving enzyme, FAP, soluble form, APCE, Dipeptidyl peptidase FAP, and FAP - All. It is an enzyme, a protease, a serine protease, and a serine protease SC clan, belonging to the serine protease S9B subfamily.

The dataset has multiple features, including MOLECULE_CHEMBL_ID and MEDIAN_PXC50, which are human-readable. However, the rest of the features are FCFP6_1024, which are not human-readable.

Fibroblast Activation Protein Alpha is a protein target classification, and it is an enzyme, a protease, a serine protease, and a serine protease SC clan, belonging to the serine protease S9B subfamily. It is involved in various biological processes, including angiogenesis, proteolysis, apoptotic process, cell adhesion, regulation of collagen catabolic process, negative regulation of extracellular matrix disassembly, endothelial cell migration, proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process, regulation of cell cycle, regulation of fibrinolysis, negative regulation of cell proliferation involved in contact inhibition, melanocyte proliferation, positive regulation of execution phase of apoptosis, melanocyte apoptotic process, and negative regulation of extracellular matrix organization.

Keywords: Fibroblast Activation Protein Alpha, QSAR, drug target, enzyme, protease, serine protease, biological processes.