The dataset represents individual patients who underwent major lung resections for primary lung cancer at the Wroclaw Thoracic Surgery Centre between 2007 and 2011. The centre is associated with the Department of Thoracic Surgery of the Medical University of Wroclaw and Lower-Silesian Centre for Pulmonary Diseases, Poland, and the research database is part of the National Lung Cancer Registry, administered by the Institute of Tuberculosis and Pulmonary Diseases in Warsaw, Poland.

The dataset contains seventeen features, including diagnosis, forced vital capacity, volume that has been exhaled at the end of the first second of forced expiration, performance status, pain before surgery, haemoptysis before surgery, dyspnoea before surgery, cough before surgery, weakness before surgery, type of tumour, type two diabetes mellitus, myocardial infarction up to six months, peripheral arterial diseases, smoking, asthma, age at surgery, and one-year survival period.

The diagnosis feature represents a specific combination of ICD-10 codes for primary and secondary as well as multiple tumours if any. The performance status feature is based on the Zubrod scale. The type of tumour feature represents the size of the original tumour, from the smallest to the largest.

The dataset does not contain any missing values. The class distribution is binary, with seventy instances representing patients who died within one year and four hundred instances representing patients who survived for more than one year.

The summary statistics show the distribution of binary attributes, including pain before surgery, haemoptysis before surgery, dyspnoea before surgery, cough before surgery, weakness before surgery, type two diabetes mellitus, myocardial infarction up to six months, peripheral arterial diseases, smoking, and asthma. The nominal attributes distribution shows the distribution of diagnosis and performance status. The numeric attributes statistics show the minimum, maximum, mean, and standard deviation of forced vital capacity, volume that has been exhaled at the end of the first second of forced expiration, and age at surgery.

Keywords: lung cancer, thoracic surgery, patient data, diagnosis, survival rate, medical research.