Gesture Phase Segmentation Processed 

Tags: Concept Drift, Geography, Life Science, OpenML-CC18, OpenML100, Study 123, Study 14, Study 34, Study 98, Study 99 

The dataset is composed of features extracted from seven videos with people gesticulating, aiming at studying Gesture Phase Segmentation. Each video is represented by two files: a raw file, which contains the position of hands, wrists, head, and spine of the user in each frame; and a processed file, which contains velocity and acceleration of hands and wrists.

Attribute Information:

Raw files: eighteen numeric attributes (double), a timestamp, and a class attribute (nominal).

Processed files: thirty-two numeric attributes (double) and a class attribute (nominal). A feature vector with up to fifty numeric attributes can be generated with the two files mentioned above.

This is the processed data set with the following feature description:

Processed files:

Vectorial velocity of left hand (x coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of left hand (y coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of left hand (z coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right hand (x coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right hand (y coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right hand (z coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of left wrist (x coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of left wrist (y coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of left wrist (z coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right wrist (x coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right wrist (y coordinate)
Vectorial velocity of right wrist (z coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left hand (x coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left hand (y coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left hand (z coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right hand (x coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right hand (y coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right hand (z coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left wrist (x coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left wrist (y coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of left wrist (z coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right wrist (x coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right wrist (y coordinate)
Vectorial acceleration of right wrist (z coordinate)
Scalar velocity of left hand
Scalar velocity of right hand
Scalar velocity of left wrist
Scalar velocity of right wrist
Scalar velocity of left hand
Scalar velocity of right hand
Scalar velocity of left wrist
Scalar velocity of right wrist
Phase: rest position, preparation, stroke, hold, retraction

Relevant Papers:

Gesture Unit Segmentation using Support Vector Machines: Segmenting Gestures from Rest Positions.
Gesture Unit Segmentation Using Spatial-Temporal Information and Machine Learning.
Support Vector Machines and Gesture Analysis: incorporating temporal aspects.
Segmentação de Unidades Gestuais com Multilayer Perceptrons.

Citation Policy:
Please refer to the Machine Learning Repository's citation policy. Additionally, the authors require a citation to one or more publications from those cited as relevant papers.

Keywords: gesture phase segmentation, concept drift, geography, life science, openml-cc18, openml100.