QSAR-TID-100826 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100826. The dataset has fourteen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Pyrimidinergic receptor P2Y6. This receptor is also known as P2ry6, P2Y6, and P2Y purinoceptor six. It is a single protein and is classified as a membrane receptor, family A G protein-coupled receptor, small molecule receptor, and nucleotide-like receptor.

The Pyrimidinergic receptor P2Y6 is found in the plasma membrane, membrane, basolateral plasma membrane, and apical plasma membrane. It has several functions, including G protein-coupled ADP receptor activity, G protein-coupled receptor activity, G protein-coupled purinergic nucleotide receptor activity, G protein-coupled UDP receptor activity, and G protein-coupled UTP receptor activity.

This receptor is involved in several biological processes, including phagocytosis, signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of smooth muscle cell migration, transepithelial chloride transport, positive regulation of inositol one, four, five-trisphosphate-sensitive calcium-release channel activity, positive regulation of inositol trisphosphate biosynthetic process, G protein-coupled purinergic nucleotide receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of ERK one and ERK two cascade, cellular response to prostaglandin E stimulus, cellular response to organic cyclic compound, cellular response to purine-containing compound, and positive regulation of vascular associated smooth muscle cell proliferation.

Keywords: QSAR, Pyrimidinergic receptor P2Y6, G protein-coupled receptor, membrane receptor, signal transduction, phagocytosis.