Name: splice
Tags: OpenML-CC, OpenML, study, uci

Primate splice junction gene sequences (DNA) with associated imperfect domain theory. Splice junctions are points on a DNA sequence at which 'superfluous' DNA is removed during the process of protein creation in higher organisms. The problem posed in this dataset is to recognize, given a sequence of DNA, the boundaries between exons (the parts of the DNA sequence retained after splicing) and introns (the parts of the DNA sequence that are spliced out). This problem consists of two subtasks: recognizing exon/intron boundaries (referred to as EI sites), and recognizing intron/exon boundaries (IE sites). In the biological community, IE borders are referred to as 'acceptors' while EI borders are referred to as 'donors'.

All examples are taken from Genbank. Categories "ei" and "ie" include every "split gene" for primates in Genbank. Non splice examples are taken from sequences known not to include a splicing site.

Attribute Information:
The first attribute indicates the class, which is one of {n ei ie}. The second attribute is the instance name. The remaining sixty fields represent the sequence, starting at position negative thirty and ending at position positive thirty. Each of these fields is almost always filled by one of {a, g, t, c}. Other characters indicate ambiguity among the standard characters according to the following table:
Character D means A or G or T
Character N means A or G or C or T
Character S means C or G
Character R means A or G

Notes:
Instance name is an identifier and should be ignored for modeling.

The dataset includes information about McGeoch's method for signal sequence recognition, von Heijne's method for signal sequence recognition, von Heijne's Signal Peptidase II consensus sequence score, presence of charge on N terminus of predicted lipoproteins, score of discriminant analysis of the amino acid content of outer membrane and periplasmic proteins, score of the ALOM membrane spanning region prediction program, and score of ALOM program after excluding putative cleavable signal regions from the sequence.

Class labels include cytoplasm, inner membrane without signal sequence, periplasm, inner membrane with uncleavable signal sequence, outer membrane, outer membrane lipoprotein, inner membrane lipoprotein, and inner membrane with cleavable signal sequence.

Keywords: DNA sequences, splice junctions, exons, introns, gene prediction, bioinformatics, molecular biology, protein synthesis, genomics