QSAR-TID-100418 Dataset 

Tags: Economics, Life Science, MTLQSAR, Study 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100418. The dataset has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class features.

The features represent FCFP 1024-bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not typically require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include molecule ChEMBL ID and multiple FCFP6 features.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100418. The data is presented in a table format with multiple rows and features.

The target classification is enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, TK protein kinase group, and tyrosine protein kinase Tec family. The description relationship accession is tyrosine-protein kinase Tec.

The organism is Homo sapiens, and the species group is no protein target classification. The expression atlas includes cytoplasm, cytosol, cytoskeleton, plasma membrane, and membrane.

Go components include nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein tyrosine kinase activity, non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, phospholipid binding, lipid binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and metal ion binding.

Go functions include adaptive immune response, immune system process, protein phosphorylation, integrin-mediated signaling pathway, regulation of platelet activation, phosphorylation, intracellular signal transduction, tissue regeneration, T cell receptor signaling pathway, and B cell receptor signaling pathway.

Wikipedia includes information on the TEC gene. CanSAR-target, guide to pharmacology, interact, pharmGKB, pharos, reactome, and uniprot also provide additional information related to this dataset.

Keywords: QSAR, TID, ChEMBL, FCFP, molecular fingerprints, tyrosine protein kinase Tec, enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, Homo sapiens.