QSAR-TID-10235 Dataset: Machine Learning, Manufacturing, MTLQSAR, Study Three

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10235. It has ninety-three rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systemes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains information about the dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase six, also known as MAP two K six, MAP kinase/ERK kinase six, MAP kinase kinase six, and MAPKK six. It belongs to the species group Homo sapiens and has a protein target classification of one enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/STE protein kinase group/STE protein kinase STE seven family.

The description of this protein is related to its role in various biological processes, including the MAPK cascade, osteoblast differentiation, positive regulation of protein phosphorylation, response to ischemia, protein phosphorylation, and apoptotic process.

It is also involved in signal transduction, response to xenobiotic stimulus, phosphorylation, ovulation cycle process, stress-activated protein kinase signaling cascade, positive regulation of prostaglandin secretion, p thirty-eight MAPK cascade, signal transduction in response to DNA damage, positive regulation of apoptotic process, positive regulation of MAP kinase activity, and positive regulation of MAPK cascade.

Additionally, it participates in stress-activated MAPK cascade, regulation of cell cycle, positive regulation of nitric oxide synthase biosynthetic process, cardiac muscle contraction, bone development, nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing signaling pathway, cellular response to sorbitol, and cellular senescence.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, manufacturing, dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase six, MAPK cascade, protein phosphorylation, signal transduction, apoptosis, cellular senescence.