QSAR-TID-30034 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Five, and it has multiple rows and features. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Five. The dataset has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50.

Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Five is a single protein that is also known as Apoptosis Signal-Regulating Kinase One, ASK One, MAP Three Kinase Five, and MAPK/ERK Kinase Kinase Five. It is an enzyme that belongs to the STE protein kinase group and STE protein kinase STE Eleven family.

The protein is involved in various biological processes, including the MAPK cascade, positive regulation of protein phosphorylation, immune system process, response to ischemia, protein phosphorylation, and apoptotic process. It is also involved in the JNK cascade, intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to oxidative stress, and response to endoplasmic reticulum stress.

The protein has various molecular functions, including nucleotide binding, magnesium ion binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, JUN kinase kinase kinase activity, MAP kinase kinase kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, protein kinase binding, protein phosphatase binding, and protein domain specific binding.

Keywords: Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Five, QSAR, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, Apoptosis Signal-Regulating Kinase One, MAPK cascade, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process.