Name: kdd coil 5 Tags: uci

Data Description

This data set is from the Computational Intelligence and Learning (COIL) competition. The data contains measurements of river chemical concentrations and algae densities.

The data comes from a water quality study where samples were taken from sites on different European rivers over a period of approximately one year. These samples were analyzed for various chemical substances including nitrogen in the form of nitrates, nitrites and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, and chloride. In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population distributions.

The competition involved the prediction of algal frequency distributions based on the measured concentrations of chemical substances and global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size, and its flow velocity. The competition instructions contain additional information on the prediction task.

Data Characteristics

There are a total of 340 examples, each containing 17 values. The first 11 values of each data set are the season, the river size, the fluid velocity, and 8 chemical concentrations which should be relevant for the algae population distribution. The last 8 values of each example are the distribution of different kinds of algae. These 8 kinds are only a very small part of the whole community, but for the competition, the number was limited to 7. The value 0.0 means that the frequency is very low. The data set also contains some empty fields which are labeled with the string XXXXX.

The training data are saved in the file: analysis.data (ASCII format). The structure of the file includes chemical concentrations or river characteristics (CC) and algal frequencies (AG). The chemical parameters are labeled as A through K, and the columns of the algae are labeled as a through g.

Task Description

The competition task is the prediction of algal frequency distributions on the basis of the measured concentrations of chemical substances and global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size, and its flow velocity. The last two variables are given as linguistic variables.

Participants receive 200 complete data sets (training data) and 140 data sets (evaluation data) containing only the 11 values of the river descriptions and chemical concentrations. The training data is to be used in obtaining a 'model' providing a prediction of the algal distributions associated with the evaluation data.

Objective

The objective of the competition is to provide a prediction model based on the training data. Having obtained this prediction model, each participant must provide the solution in the form of the results of applying this model to the evaluation data. All 7 algae frequency distributions must be determined. For this purpose, any number of partial models may be developed.

Judgment of Results

To judge the results, the sum of squared errors will be calculated. All solutions that lead to the smallest total error will be regarded as winners of the contest.

Keywords: water quality, algae prediction, chemical concentrations, river ecosystems, environmental monitoring, data analysis, machine learning, ecological modeling