This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Serine Threonine-Protein Kinase NEK Six, and it has multiple rows and numerous features including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP Six One Two Four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include MOLECULE CHEMBL ID and numerous FCFP Six One Two Four features.

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version Seventeen.

Serine Threonine-Protein Kinase NEK Six is a single protein target also known as Never in Mitosis A-Related Kinase Six or NimA-Related Protein Kinase Six. It belongs to the enzyme kinase protein kinase other protein kinase group and is classified under the species group of Homo sapiens.

The protein target classification is one enzyme kinase protein kinase other protein kinase group other protein kinase NEK family. The description relationship accession is Serine Threonine-Protein Kinase Nek Six Single Protein.

The expression atlas includes information about the component, function, and process of this protein target. The component includes spindle pole, nucleus, nucleoplasm, cytoplasm, centrosome, microtubule organizing center, cytosol, cytoskeleton, microtubule, nuclear speck, and protein-containing complex. The function includes nucleotide binding, magnesium ion binding, transcription corepressor binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine threonine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, kinesin binding, protein kinase binding, ubiquitin protein ligase binding, and metal ion binding. The process includes protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, cell cycle, mitotic spindle organization, chromosome segregation, mitotic nuclear membrane disassembly, regulation of mitotic cell cycle, phosphorylation, peptidyl-serine phosphorylation, regulation of mitotic metaphase anaphase transition, positive regulation of I-kappaB kinase NF-kappaB signaling, protein autophosphorylation, spindle assembly, cell division, and regulation of cellular senescence.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, molecular fingerprints, Serine Threonine-Protein Kinase NEK Six, MetaQSAR project, ChEMBL, enzyme kinase, protein kinase, Homo sapiens.