USCrime 
Tags: Chemistry, Life Science 

These datasets contain crime related and demographic statistics for forty seven United States in nineteen sixty. The data was collected from the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Report and other government agencies to determine how the variable crime rate depends on the other variables measured in the study.

The data sets aim to investigate the relationship between the crime rate and various socio-economic factors such as education, unemployment, labor force participation, and expenditures on police.

The data sets consist of forty seven cases, each representing a United States state.

Variable Names:
Crime Rate represents the number of offenses reported to the police per million population.
Age represents the number of males of age fourteen to twenty four per one thousand population.
S is an indicator variable for Southern states, where zero indicates no and one indicates yes.
Education represents the mean number of years of schooling multiplied by ten for persons of age twenty five or older.
Expenditure Zero represents nineteen sixty per capita expenditure on police by state and local government.
Expenditure One represents nineteen fifty nine per capita expenditure on police by state and local government.
Labor Force represents labor force participation rate per one thousand civilian urban males of age fourteen to twenty four.
Males represent the number of males per one thousand females.
State Population Size represents state population size in hundreds of thousands.
Non Whites represent the number of non whites per one thousand population.
Unemployment One represents unemployment rate of urban males per one thousand of age fourteen to twenty four.
Unemployment Two represents unemployment rate of urban males per one thousand of age thirty five to thirty nine.
Median Value represents median value of transferable goods and assets or family income in tens of dollars.
Families represent the number of families per one thousand earning below half the median income.

Keywords: crime rate, demographics, socio-economic factors, education, unemployment, labor force participation, police expenditures.