Jannis 

Tags: Demographics, History 

This dataset belongs to the classification on numerical features benchmark. It originated from the ChaLearn Automatic Machine Learning Challenge, where thirty datasets were made available, all preformatted in given feature representations. Each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients, and the challenge is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention.

The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, various metrics of evaluation, and various proportions of the number of features and the number of examples. The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, including medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, action recognition in video data, and more.

While there exist machine learning toolkits that can solve all these problems, it is still considerable human effort to find the combination of methods and hyperparameter settings that is best suited for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time. The challenge is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the human in the loop.

This is a challenge with code submission, where the code will be executed automatically on the servers to train and test the learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, as half of the prizes can be won by just submitting prediction results. There are multiple rounds, with datasets of progressive difficulty introduced in each round, and there is no prerequisite to participate in previous rounds to enter a new round.

Keywords: machine learning, classification, regression, automatic, challenge, datasets, numerical features