Name: fl2000
Tags: 

Source: Unknown - Date unknown

Please cite: County data from the 2000 Presidential Election in Florida. Compiled by Department of Statistics, University of Florida

These data are derived from three sources, described below. As far as I am aware, you are free to use these data in any way that you see fit, though some acknowledgement is always appreciated. The candidate vote counts are the final certified counts reported by the Florida Division of Elections. These were obtained from the NORC website in the file Cert results.csv. Note that these do NOT include the federal absentee votes (so that one candidate's total vote is actually higher here than the other's).

The undervote and overvote counts were extracted from the NORC ballot level data in the file aligned.txt. Since aligned.txt is too large to work with in R (or almost any other program) a standard UNIX program was used to extract just the columns needed. Then the results were read into R and processed there.

The technology and columns data were extracted from the Media Group data from the NORC website. "Technology" is simply the type of voting machine used, and "columns" is indicated as one if the ballot listed the presidential candidates in a single column on a single page, and two if the presidential candidates were spread over two columns or two pages of the ballot. These agree with some earlier data that had been obtained from the NY Times website, except that in the media group data one county's ballot (the famous butterfly ballot) was listed as having one column. This would definitely be considered a two column ballot, so that is the designation recorded here.

At one time it was thought that another county also used a two column ballot, but this was incorrect (the ballot listed the candidates and parties in English and Spanish in opposing columns). Images of most of the ballots can be found on the New York Times website.

Information about the dataset
CLASSTYPE: nominal
CLASSINDEX: two

Features: county, technology, columns, under, over, candidate names

Keywords: Presidential Election, Florida, vote counts, ballot data, voting technology