This is a supervised learning challenge in machine learning, where thirty datasets are made available, each preformatted in a given feature representation, meaning that each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients. The challenge is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention. The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, various metrics of evaluation, and varying proportions of the number of features and the number of examples.

The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, including medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, and action recognition in video data. Although there exist machine learning toolkits that include methods capable of solving all these problems, it still requires considerable human effort to find the combination of methods and hyperparameter settings that are best suited for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time.

The goal is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the need for human intervention. This is a challenge with code submission, where the submitted code will be executed automatically on the server to train and test the learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, as half of the prizes can be won by simply submitting prediction results.

The challenge consists of six rounds, with progressively difficult datasets introduced in each round. There is no prerequisite to participate in previous rounds to enter a new round. The rounds alternate between automatic machine learning phases, where submitted code is blind-tested in limited time on the platform using unseen datasets, and tweakathon phases, which allow participants to improve their methods by tweaking them on those datasets and running them on their own systems without computational resource limitations.

Keywords: supervised learning, machine learning, automatic machine learning, classification, regression, feature representation, data distribution, human intervention, black box, code submission, prediction results.