The Friedman datasets are eighty artificially generated datasets originating from stochastic gradient boosting. 

The dataset names are coded as "Friedman colinearity degree sample number feature number". 

Friedman is one of the most widely used functions for data generation. Friedman functions include both linear and nonlinear relations between input and output, and a normalized noise is added to the output. The Friedman function is as follows: the output is equal to ten times the sine of pi times the product of the first two inputs plus twenty times the square of the difference between the third input and point five plus ten times the fifth input plus five times the sixth input plus the noise.

In the original Friedman function, there are five features for input. To measure the effects of nonrelated features, additional features are added to the datasets. These added features are independent from the output. However, to measure the algorithm's robustness to collinearity, the datasets are generated with five different collinearity degrees. The collinearity degree is the number of features depending on other features.

The generated Friedman dataset's parameters and values are given below:

The number of features ranges from five to one hundred. Only the first five features are related to the output. The rest are completely random.

The number of samples ranges from one hundred to one thousand.

Collinearity degrees range from zero to four. 

For the datasets with a collinearity degree of four, the number of features ranges from ten to one hundred. The other datasets have five, ten, twenty-five, and fifty features.

As a result, eighty artificial datasets are generated by combining different feature numbers, sample numbers, and collinearity degrees.

The last attribute in each file is the target.

Keywords: Friedman datasets, stochastic gradient boosting, collinearity degree, nonlinear relations, normalized noise, artificial datasets, data generation, machine learning.