Covid19-global Tags: Daily values of confirmed cases, deaths, and recoveries for COVID-19 in several countries.

This folder contains daily time series summary tables, including confirmed cases, deaths, and recovered cases. All data is read in from the daily case report. The time series tables are subject to be updated if inaccuracies are identified in our historical data.

Two time series tables are for the United States confirmed cases and deaths, reported at the county level. They are named Time Series COVID-19 Confirmed US and Time Series COVID-19 Deaths US, respectively. Three time series tables are for the global confirmed cases, recovered cases, and deaths. Australia, Canada, and China are reported at the province or state level. Dependencies of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, and Denmark are listed under the province or state level. The United States and other countries are at the country level. The tables are renamed Time Series COVID-19 Confirmed Global, Time Series COVID-19 Deaths Global, and Time Series COVID-19 Recovered Global, respectively.

We have joined the confirmed, deaths, and recovered datasets to create multivariate series. Preprocessing involved several steps. First, we grouped the values for the Country or Region Canada for all the Province or State. The recovered dataset does not have several Province or State for Canada, only the country, so we grouped in order to merge all the datasets. Next, we filled NaN values for Province or State with the value Country. We also filled NaN values for Latitude and Longitude with 0.0. Then, we melted the datasets with identifiers Province or State, Country or Region, Latitude, and Longitude, obtaining columns Date and Value X, where X is 0 for confirmed cases, 1 for deaths, and 2 for recoveries. After that, we standardized the date to the format Year-Month-Day. We merged all the datasets and created a column ID Series from Province or State, Country or Region with an index from 0 to 273. We renamed columns Province or State, Country or Region, Latitude, and Longitude to Covariate 0, Covariate 1, Covariate 2, and Covariate 3. Finally, we created a column Time Step with increasing values of the time step for the time series and casted Value X columns to integer, defined ID Series, Covariate 0, and Covariate 1 as category, and casted Covariate 2 and Covariate 3 to float.

Keywords: COVID-19, daily cases, global data, time series, confirmed cases, deaths, recoveries.