Covertype
Tags: study, uci

Predicting forest cover type from cartographic variables only (no remotely sensed data). The actual forest cover type for a given observation (thirty by thirty meter cell) was determined from US Forest Service (USFS) Region Resource Information System (RIS) data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from US Geological Survey (USGS) and USFS data. Data is in raw form (not scaled) and contains binary (zero or one) columns of data for qualitative independent variables (wilderness areas and soil types).

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices.

Some background information for these four wilderness areas: Neota (area two) probably has the highest mean elevational value of the four wilderness areas. Rawah (area one) and Comanche Peak (area three) would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache la Poudre (area four) would have the lowest mean elevational value.

As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce/fir (type one), while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine (type two) as their primary species, followed by spruce/fir and aspen (type five). Cache la Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa pine (type three), Douglas fir (type six), and cottonwood/willow (type four).

The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache la Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values (elevation, etc.) Cache la Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Attribute Information: Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database.

Elevation: quantitative, meters, Elevation in meters
Aspect: quantitative, azimuth, Aspect in degrees azimuth
Slope: quantitative, degrees, Slope in degrees
Horizontal Distance To Hydrology: quantitative, meters, Horizontal Distance to nearest surface water features
Vertical Distance To Hydrology: quantitative, meters, Vertical Distance to nearest surface water features
Horizontal Distance To Roadways: quantitative, meters, Horizontal Distance to nearest roadway
Hillshade am: quantitative, zero to index, Hillshade index at am, summer solstice
Hillshade Noon: quantitative, zero to index, Hillshade index at noon, summer solstice
Hillshade pm: quantitative, zero to index, Hillshade index at pm, summer solstice
Horizontal Distance To Fire Points: quantitative, meters, Horizontal Distance to nearest wildfire ignition points
Wilderness Area (four binary columns): qualitative, zero (absence) or one (presence), Wilderness area designation
Soil Type (forty binary columns): qualitative, zero (absence) or one (presence), Soil Type designation
Cover Type (seven types): integer, one to seven, Forest Cover Type designation

Relevant Papers:
- "Comparative Accuracies of Artificial Neural Networks and Discriminant Analysis in Predicting Forest Cover Types from Cartographic Variables." Computers and Electronics in Agriculture.
- "Comparative Accuracies of Neural Networks and Discriminant Analysis in Predicting Forest Cover Types from Cartographic Variables." Second Southern Forestry GIS Conference. University of Georgia. Athens, GA.
- "Comparison of Neural Networks and Discriminant Analysis in Predicting Forest Cover Types." Ph.D. dissertation. Department of Forest Sciences. Colorado State University. Fort Collins, Colorado.

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, tree species, elevation, soil types, neural networks, discriminant analysis