Avocado Prices 
Tags: Machine Learning, Medicine 

It is a well-known fact that Millennials love Avocado Toast. It's also a well-known fact that all Millennials live in their parents' basements. Clearly, they aren't buying homes because they are buying too much Avocado Toast! But maybe there's hope; if a Millennial could find a city with cheap avocados, they could live out the Millennial American Dream.

This data was downloaded from the Hass Avocado Board website in May of two thousand eighteen, compiled into a single Comma Separated Values file. According to the Hass Avocado Board, the data on their website describes the data as follows: 
The table below represents weekly two thousand eighteen retail scan data for national retail volume (units) and price. Retail scan data comes directly from retailers' cash registers based on actual retail sales of Hass avocados. Starting in two thousand thirteen, the table below reflects an expanded, multi-outlet retail data set. 
Multi-outlet reporting includes an aggregation of the following channels: grocery, mass, club, drug, dollar, and military. 
The Average Price (of avocados) in the table reflects a per unit (per avocado) cost, even when multiple units (avocados) are sold in bags. 
The Product Lookup codes (PLUs) in the table are only for Hass avocados. 
Other varieties of avocados (for example, Greenskins) are not included in this table. 

Some relevant columns in the dataset include Date - the date of the observation; Average Price - the average price of a single avocado; Type - conventional or organic; Year - the year; Region - the city or region of the observation; Total Volume - total number of avocados sold.

Acknowledgments 
Many thanks to the Hass Avocado Board for sharing this data!

In which cities can Millennials have their avocado toast and buy a home? Was the Avocadopocalypse of two thousand seventeen real?

Features: 
Date, Average Price, Type, Year, Region, Total Volume

Keywords: Avocado, Millennial, Home Buying, Avocado Toast, Hass Avocado Board, Retail Scan Data.