Detroit 
Tags: Government, Statistics 

This dataset is known as DETROIT in the book Subset Selection in Regression. The data are unusual in that a subset of three predictors can be found which gives a very much better fit to the data than the subsets found from the Efroymson stepwise algorithm, or from forward selection or backward elimination.

The original data were given in an appendix of Regression Analysis and Its Application: A Data-Oriented Approach. However, this has caused problems because some copies of the book do not contain all of the data, and because it is not specified which variables were used as predictors and which is the dependent variable.

It has been clarified that Homocide Rate was the dependent variable, and the predictors were Full-Time Police, Unemployment Percentage, Manufacturing Workers, Handgun Licences, Handgun Registrations, Homicide Clearance Rate, White Males, Non-Manufacturing Workers, Government Workers, Hourly Earnings, and Weekly Earnings.

The data were collected on the homicide rate in Detroit for the years nineteen sixty-one to nineteen seventy-three. 

Full-Time Police refers to the number of full-time police per one hundred thousand population. Unemployment Percentage represents the percentage unemployed in the population. Manufacturing Workers is the number of manufacturing workers in thousands. Handgun Licences is the number of handgun licenses per one hundred thousand population. Handgun Registrations is the number of handgun registrations per one hundred thousand population. Homicide Clearance Rate is the percentage homicides cleared by arrests. White Males is the number of white males in the population. Non-Manufacturing Workers is the number of non-manufacturing workers in thousands. Government Workers is the number of government workers in thousands. Hourly Earnings is the average hourly earnings. Weekly Earnings is the average weekly earnings. Homocide Rate is the number of homicides per one hundred thousand of population. Accidental Death Rate is the death rate in accidents per one hundred thousand population. Assaults is the number of assaults per one hundred thousand population.

Keywords: homicide rate, Detroit, police, unemployment, manufacturing, handguns, government workers, hourly earnings, weekly earnings