beijing-pm2.5 
Tags: Life Science, Machine Learning 

This hourly data set contains the Particulate Matter 2.5 data of United States Embassy in Beijing. Meanwhile, meteorological data from Beijing Capital International Airport are also included. 

Features: 
Year, Month, Day, Hour, Particulate Matter 2.5, Dew Point, Temperature, Pressure, Cumulated Wind Direction, Instantaneous Wind Speed, Instantaneous Solar Radiation 

Scraped Data: 
Dataset Information 
Additional Information 
The dataset was created. 
For the purpose of this data collection, an array of thirteen iBeacons were placed in the first floor of Waldo Library, Western Michigan University. 
Data was collected using an iPhone Six S. 
The dataset contains two sub datasets: a labeled dataset and an unlabeled dataset. 
The recording was performed during the operational hours of the library. 
For the labeled dataset, the input data contains the location, a timestamp, followed by Received Signal Strength Indication readings of thirteen iBeacons. 
Received Signal Strength Indication measurements are negative values. 
Bigger Received Signal Strength Indication values indicate closer proximity to a given iBeacon. 
For out-of-range iBeacons, the Received Signal Strength Indication is indicated. 
The locations related to Received Signal Strength Indication readings are combined in one column consisting a letter for the column and a number for the row of the position. 
The attached figure depicts the layout of the iBeacons as well as the arrangement of locations. 

Has Missing Values? 
Yes 

Additional Variable Information 
Location: 
The location of receiving Received Signal Strength Indications from iBeacons; 
symbolic values showing the column and row of the location on the map. 
Date: 
Datetime in the format of ‘day-month-year hour:minute:second’ 
iBeacons: 
Received Signal Strength Indication readings corresponding to the iBeacons; 
numeric, integers only.

Keywords: Particulate Matter 2.5, Meteorological Data, iBeacons, Received Signal Strength Indication, Waldo Library.