Name: cps wages Tags: Author: Source: Unknown - Date unknown Please cite: Determinants of Wages from the Current Population Survey

Summary: The Current Population Survey (CPS) is utilized to supplement census information between census years. This dataset comprises a random sample from the CPS, containing information on wages and other characteristics of workers, including sex, years of education, work experience, occupational status, region of residence, and union membership. The objective is to determine whether wages are related to these characteristics and if there exists a gender gap in wages.

Based on residual plots, wages were log-transformed to stabilize the variance. Age and work experience were found to be almost perfectly correlated. Multiple regression of log wages against various factors showed that these covariates were related to wages. The effect of age was not significant after controlling for experience. Standardized residual plots showed no patterns, except for one large outlier with lower wages than expected.

Adjusting for all other variables in the model, females earned a lower percentage of the wages of males. Wages increased with additional years of education and experience. Union members were paid more than non-union members. Northern residents were paid more than southern residents. Management and professional positions were paid most, while service and clerical positions were paid least. Overall variance explained was moderate.

In summary, multiple factors describe the variations in wages: occupational status, years of experience, years of education, sex, union membership, and region of residence. However, despite adjustment for all available factors, there still appeared to be a gender gap in wages, with no readily available explanation.

Authorization: Public Domain

Description: The datafile contains observations on variables sampled from the Current Population Survey. This dataset demonstrates multiple regression, confounding, transformations, multicollinearity, categorical variables, ANOVA, pooled tests of significance, interactions, and model building strategies.

Variables include: Education (years), South (indicator for Southern Region), Sex (indicator), Experience (years), Union (membership indicator), Wage (dollars per hour), Age (years), Race, Occupation (category), Sector, and Marital Status.

Keywords: wage determinants, gender gap, education impact, work experience, union membership, regional differences, occupational status