The Government of India Census 2001 District Wise dataset is a rich database that tells the stories of over a billion Indians. It is not only important for research purposes but also commercially valuable for organizations seeking to understand India's complex yet strongly knitted heterogeneity.

However, nowhere on the web exists a single database that combines district-wise information of all the variables. Most datasets include no more than four to five out of over fifty variables. Extracting and using data from the Census of India 2001 is a laborious task since all data is made available in scattered PDFs district-wise. Individual PDFs can be extracted from the official website.

This dataset has been extracted from the Census of 2001 and includes data of 590 districts, having around eighty variables each. In case of confusion regarding the context of the variable, refer to the official documentation.

All the extraction work can be found on GitHub. The final CSV can be found in the repository.

The subtle hack that was used to automate extraction to a great extent was the observation that the URLs of all the PDFs were the same except for the four digits that were respective state and district codes.

A few abbreviations used for states include Andaman and Nicobar, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal.

A few variables for clarification include population growth from 1991 to 2001, people in the age group of zero to four years, and Scheduled Caste with the highest population.

This massive dataset can be used to explain the interplay between education, caste, development, gender, and much more. It can explain a lot about India and propel data-driven research.

Features include State, District, Persons, Males, Females, Population Growth, Rural, Urban, Scheduled Caste Population, Percentage of Scheduled Caste to Total, Number of Households, Household Size per Household, Sex Ratio, Scheduled Tribe Population, Percentage of Scheduled Tribe to Total Population, Literate Persons, Literate Males, Literate Females, Literacy Rate, Total Educated, Data without Level, Below Primary, Primary, Middle, Matric Higher Secondary Diploma, Graduate and Above, Age Groups, Total Workers, Main Workers, Marginal Workers, Non-Workers, Scheduled Caste Names and Populations, Religion Names and Populations, Scheduled Tribe Names and Populations, Important Town Names and Populations, Total Inhabited Villages, Drinking Water Facilities, Safe Drinking Water, Electricity, Primary School, Middle School, Secondary Sr Secondary School, College, Medical Facility, Primary Health Centre, Primary Health Sub Centre, Post Telegraph and Telephone Facility, Bus Services, Paved Approach Road, Mud Approach Road, Permanent House, Semi-Permanent House, Temporary House.

Keywords: India Census, District Wise, Population Growth, Education, Caste, Development, Gender, Heterogeneity.