Sensory

The data for the sensory evaluation experiment involves two phases. In the field phase, a viticultural experiment was conducted to investigate the differences between four types of trellising and two methods of pruning. The design was a split-plot design in which the trellis types were assigned to the main plots using two adjacent Youden squares of three rows and four columns. Each main plot was split into two subplots, or half-plots, and the methods of pruning were assigned at random independently to the two half-plots in each main plot. The produce of each half-plot was made into a wine, resulting in twenty-four wines altogether.

The second phase was an evaluation phase in which the produce from the half-plots was evaluated by six judges, all of whom took part in twenty-four sittings. In the first twelve sittings, the judges evaluated the wines made from the half-plots of one square; the final twelve sittings were to evaluate the wines from the other square. At each sitting, each judge assessed two glasses of wine from each of the half-plots of one of the main plots.

The main plots allocated to the judges at each sitting were determined as follows. For the allocation of rows, each occasion was subdivided into three intervals of four consecutive sittings. During each interval, each judge examined plots from one particular row, these being determined using two three-by-three Latin squares for each occasion, one for judges one through three and the other for judges four through six. At each sitting, judges one through three examined wines from one particular column and judges four through six examined wines from another column. The columns were randomized to the two sets of judges times three intervals times four sittings using duplicates of a balanced incomplete block design for treatments that were Latinized.

This balanced incomplete block design consists of three sets of two blocks, each set containing the treatments. For each interval, a different set of two blocks was taken and each block assigned to two sittings, but with the columns within the block placed in reverse order in one sitting compared to the other sitting. Thus, in each interval, a judge would evaluate a wine from each of the four columns.

The scores assigned in evaluating the wines, and the factors indexing them, are given below. The factors include Occasion, Judges, Interval, Sittings, Position, Squares, Rows, Columns, Half-plot, Trellis, Method, and Score.

Keywords: sensory evaluation, viticulture, trellising, pruning, wine, judges, sittings, plots, rows, columns, Latin squares, balanced incomplete block design.