Name: Heart Long Beach
Tags: mf less than 80, study 123, study 127, study 50, study 52, study 7, study 88

Source: UCI

Please cite: V.A. Medical Center, Long Beach and Cleveland Clinic Foundation

Data Set Information:
This database contains numerous attributes, but all published experiments refer to using a subset of them. In particular, the Cleveland database is the only one that has been used by machine learning researchers to this date. The "goal" field refers to the presence of heart disease in the patient. It is integer valued from no presence to presence. Experiments with the Cleveland database have concentrated on simply attempting to distinguish presence from absence. The names and social security numbers of the patients were recently removed from the database, replaced with dummy values. One file has been "processed", that one containing the Cleveland database. All four unprocessed files also exist in this directory. To see Test Costs, please see the folder "Costs".

Attribute Information:
Only a subset of attributes are used, including age, sex, chest pain type, resting blood pressure, serum cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, resting electrocardiographic results, maximum heart rate achieved, exercise induced angina, ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest, the slope of the peak exercise ST segment, number of major vessels colored by fluoroscopy, thalassemia, and the predicted attribute (diagnosis of heart disease).

Complete attribute documentation includes patient identification, social security number (replaced with dummy value), age, sex, chest pain location and characteristics, resting blood pressure, serum cholesterol, smoking habits, fasting blood sugar, family history of coronary artery disease, resting electrocardiographic results, exercise ECG details, medication used during exercise ECG, exercise protocol, duration of exercise test, maximum heart rate achieved, peak exercise blood pressure, exercise induced angina, ST depression, slope of peak exercise ST segment, number of major vessels colored by fluoroscopy, wall motion abnormalities, ejection fraction, and diagnosis of heart disease.

The database also includes information on the month, day, and year of cardiac catheterization, as well as details on various vessels and other cardiac measurements.

Relevant Papers:
Several papers have been published using this dataset, focusing on the application of probability algorithms for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease and models of incremental concept formation in artificial intelligence.

Keywords: heart disease, coronary artery disease, electrocardiogram, angina, blood pressure, cholesterol, exercise test, angiography