Airbnb Analysis Lisbon Tags: Dataset is from http://airbnb-data-collection-get-the-data

The room ID is a unique number identifying an Airbnb listing, which has a URL on the Airbnb website of http://airbnb.com/rooms/room ID. The host ID is a unique number identifying an Airbnb host, whose page has a URL on the Airbnb website of http://airbnb.com/users/show/host ID.

The room type is one of three categories: Entire Home or Apartment, Private Room, or Shared Room. The borough is a subregion of the city or search area for which the survey is carried out, taken from a shapefile of the city obtained independently of the Airbnb website. For some cities, there is no borough information, while for others, the borough may be a number. If better shapefiles for a city of interest are available, they can be shared.

The neighborhood is a subregion of the city or search area for which the survey is carried out, similar to the borough. For cities that have both, a neighborhood is smaller than a borough. For some cities, there is no neighborhood information.

The number of reviews is the total number of reviews a listing has received. Airbnb has stated that seventy percent of visits end up with a review, so the number of reviews can be used to estimate the number of visits. Note that such an estimate will not be reliable for an individual listing, especially as reviews occasionally vanish from the site, but over a city as a whole, it should be a useful metric of traffic.

The overall satisfaction is the average rating, out of five, that the listing has received from those visitors who left a review. The accommodates feature indicates the number of guests a listing can accommodate. The number of bedrooms is the total number of bedrooms a listing offers.

The price is the cost, in US dollars, for a night's stay. In early surveys, there may be some values that were recorded by month. The minimum stay is the minimum stay for a visit, as posted by the host.

The latitude and longitude are the coordinates of the listing as posted on the Airbnb site, which may be off by a few hundred meters. The last modified feature indicates the date and time that the values were read from the Airbnb website.

Keywords: Airbnb, dataset, room type, borough, neighborhood, reviews, overall satisfaction, accommodates, bedrooms, price, minimum stay, latitude, longitude.