This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: one eighteen forty two, and it has a large number of rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc fifty.

The features represent FCFP six one twenty four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systemes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Meta QSAR project - September two thousand fifteen

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Tyrosine protein kinase Lyn, and it has a large number of rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc fifty.

Tyrosine protein kinase Lyn is a single protein preferred name with synonyms including JTK eight Lck/Yes-related novel protein tyrosine kinase Lyn p fifty three Lyn - All. It belongs to the species Homo sapiens and is classified under enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/tyrosine protein kinase Src family.

There are several compounds that interact with Tyrosine protein kinase Lyn including Bosutinib, Tolimidone, JNJ two six four eight three two seven, and Bafetinib. These compounds have different mechanisms of action and maximum phases.

Expression Atlas and Gene Ontology provide information about the gene and its products including cellular components, biological processes, and molecular functions. Cellular components include nucleus, cytoplasm, lysosomal membrane, Golgi apparatus, cytosol, and plasma membrane. Biological processes include B cell homeostasis, regulation of cytokine production, regulation of protein phosphorylation, negative regulation of protein phosphorylation, and positive regulation of protein phosphorylation. Molecular functions include nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein tyrosine kinase activity, non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity, and signaling receptor binding.

Keywords: QSAR, Tyrosine protein kinase Lyn, FCFP, molecular fingerprints, Pipeline Pilot, Meta QSAR project.