Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks Dataset

Name: prnn cushings
Tags: study, study

Source: Unknown - Date unknown

Please cite: Datasets for 'Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks' by Cambridge University Press ISBN

The background to the datasets is described in section; this file relates the computer-readable files to that description.

Cushing's syndrome:
Data from Aitchison & Dunsmore. Data file Cushings.dat has four columns: Label of the patient, Tetrahydrocortisone (mg/hr), Pregnanetriol (mg/hr), and Type. The type of the last six patients (u to u) should be regarded as unknown. (The code 'o' indicates 'other').

Synthetic two-class problem:
Data from Ripley. This has two real-valued coordinates (xs and ys) and a class (xc) which is or. Data file synth.tr has rows of the training set. synth.te has rows of the test set (not used here).

Viruses:
This is a dataset on viruses with rod-shaped particles affecting various crops (tobacco, tomato, cucumber and others) described by Fauquet et al. and analyzed by Eslava-Gomez. There are measurements on each virus, the number of amino acid residues per molecule of coat protein. Data file viruses.dat has rows of counts. virus.dat has rows corresponding to the distinct Tobamoviruses. The whole dataset is in order Hordeviruses, Tobraviruses, Tobamoviruses and 'furoviruses'.

Leptograpsus crabs:
Data from Campbell & Mahon on the morphology of rock crabs of genus Leptograpsus. There are specimens of each sex of each of two color forms. Data file crabs.dat has rows with species (coded B for blue form or O for orange form), sex (coded M or F), index within each group, frontal lip of carapace (mm), rear width of carapace (mm), length along the midline of carapace (mm), maximum width of carapace (mm), and body depth (mm).

Forensic glass:
This example comes from forensic testing of glass collected on fragments of glass. It is also contained in the UCI machine-learning database collection. Data file fglass.dat has rows with data for a single glass fragment, including refractive index, percentage weight of various oxides, and type coded to. The type codes include window float glass, window non-float glass, vehicle glass, containers, tableware, and vehicle headlamp glass.

Diabetes in Pima Indians:
A population of women who were at least years old, of Pima Indian heritage and living near Phoenix, Arizona, was tested for diabetes according to World Health Organization criteria. The data were collected by the US National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. This example is also contained in the UCI machine-learning database collection. The data files have rows containing information on number of pregnancies, plasma glucose concentration, diastolic blood pressure, triceps skin fold thickness, serum insulin, body mass index, diabetes pedigree function, age, and type (No / Yes).

Keywords: pattern recognition, neural networks, Cushing's syndrome, synthetic classification, viruses, Leptograpsus crabs, forensic glass, Pima Indian diabetes