Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings

Tags: Source

Data Set Information:
The Parkinson's Disease database consists of training and test files. The training data belongs to twenty individuals with Parkinson's disease and twenty healthy individuals who appealed at the Department of Neurology in Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University. From all subjects, multiple types of sound recordings, including sustained vowels, numbers, words, and short sentences, are taken. A group of twenty-six linear and time-frequency based features are extracted from each voice sample. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score of each patient, which is determined by an expert physician, is also available in this dataset. Therefore, this dataset can also be used for regression. After collecting the training dataset, which consists of multiple types of sound recordings, and performing our experiments, in line with the obtained findings, we continued collecting an independent test set from individuals with Parkinson's disease via the same physician's examination process under the same conditions. During the collection of this dataset, twenty-eight individuals with Parkinson's disease are asked to say only the sustained vowels 'a' and 'o' three times respectively, which makes a total of one hundred sixty-eight recordings. The same twenty-six features are extracted from voice samples of this dataset. This dataset can be used as an independent test set to validate the results obtained on the training set.

Training Data File:
Each subject has twenty-six voice samples, including sustained vowels, numbers, words, and short sentences. The voice samples in the training data file are given in the following order: sample number - corresponding voice samples, sustained vowel (aaa), sustained vowel (ooo), sustained vowel (uuu), numbers from one to ten, short sentences, and words.

Test Data File:
Twenty-eight individuals with Parkinson's disease are asked to say only the sustained vowels 'a' and 'o' three times respectively, which makes a total of one hundred sixty-eight recordings. The voice samples in the test data file are given in the following order: sample number - corresponding voice samples, sustained vowel (aaa), sustained vowel (ooo).

Attribute Information:
Training Data File:
column one: Subject identification
column two to twenty-seven: features
column twenty-eight: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score
column twenty-nine: class information

Test Data File:
column one: Subject identification
column two to twenty-seven: features
column twenty-eight: class information

Relevant Papers:
Collection and Analysis of a Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings

Keywords: Parkinson's disease, speech dataset, sound recordings, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, regression, classification.