QSAR-TID-12071 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Cyclin-dependent Kinase One, and it has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class feature. The features represent FCFP Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Cyclin-dependent Kinase One. The features represent FCFP Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

Cyclin-dependent Kinase One is a Single Protein with a Preferred Name of Cyclin-dependent Kinase One. It has Synonyms such as CDC Two, CDC Twenty-Eight A, CDK One, CDKN One, Cell Division Control Protein Two Homolog. It is an Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase/CMGC Protein Kinase Group/CMGC Protein Kinase CDK Family/CMGC Protein Kinase CDC Two Subfamily.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project.

Scraped Data:

Cyclin-dependent Kinase One is a protein target with a Type of Single Protein. It has a Preferred Name of Cyclin-dependent Kinase One and Synonyms such as CDC Two, CDC Twenty-Eight A, CDK One, CDKN One, Cell Division Control Protein Two Homolog. It is an Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase/CMGC Protein Kinase Group/CMGC Protein Kinase CDK Family/CMGC Protein Kinase CDC Two Subfamily.

The protein target has a Description of Cyclin-dependent Kinase One and a Relationship of Single Protein. It has an Accession of P Zero Six Four Ninety-Three and a Classification of One. Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase/CMGC Protein Kinase Group/CMGC Protein Kinase CDK Family/CMGC Protein Kinase CDC Two Subfamily.

The protein target has a Component of GoComponent with multiple GO terms such as cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex, chromosome telomeric region, nucleus, nucleoplasm, cytoplasm, mitochondrion, mitochondrial matrix, endoplasmic reticulum membrane, centrosome, microtubule organizing center, spindle, cytosol, cytoskeleton, spindle microtubule, membrane, midbody, extracellular exosome, mitotic spindle, cyclin B One-CDK One complex.

The protein target has a Function of GoFunction with multiple GO terms such as nucleotide binding, virus receptor activity, chromatin binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, cyclin-dependent protein serine/threonine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, RNA polymerase II CTD heptapeptide repeat kinase activity, kinase activity, transferase activity, cyclin binding, Hsp Seventy protein binding, histone kinase activity, cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity, protein serine kinase activity.

The protein target has a Process of GoProcess with multiple GO terms such as G Two/M transition of mitotic cell cycle, microtubule cytoskeleton organization, DNA replication, DNA repair, chromatin remodeling, regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, cell cycle, mitotic G Two DNA damage checkpoint signaling, centrosome cycle, pronuclear fusion, response to xenobiotic stimulus, response to toxic substance, response to organonitrogen compound, positive regulation of gene expression, negative regulation of gene expression, positive regulation of G Two/M transition of mitotic cell cycle, regulation of Schwann cell differentiation, response to organic cyclic compound, response to amine, response to activity, phosphorylation, cell migration, protein deubiquitination, peptidyl-serine phosphorylation, peptidyl-threonine phosphorylation, chromosome condensation, epithelial cell differentiation, animal organ regeneration, protein localization to kinetochore, positive regulation of protein import into nucleus, response to hydrogen peroxide, regulation of circadian rhythm, negative regulation of apoptotic process, mitotic cell cycle phase transition, response to ethanol, positive regulation of DNA replication, positive regulation of mitotic cell cycle, regulation of embryonic development, response to cadmium ion, response to copper ion, viral entry into host cell, fibroblast proliferation, rhythmic process, response to axon injury, cell division, ventricular cardiac muscle cell development, positive regulation of cardiac muscle cell proliferation, positive regulation of mitotic sister chromatid segregation, protein-containing complex assembly, cellular response to hydrogen peroxide, ERK One and ERK Two cascade, cellular response to organic cyclic compound, Golgi disassembly, positive regulation of protein localization to nucleus, microtubule cytoskeleton organization involved in mitosis, positive regulation of mitochondrial ATP synthesis coupled electron transport.

Keywords: Cyclin-dependent Kinase One, QSAR, FCFP Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, MetaQSAR project, protein target, Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase, CMGC Protein Kinase Group, CMGC Protein Kinase CDK Family, CMGC Protein Kinase CDC Two Subfamily.