This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The original studies include Carbolenes, which involves molecular descriptors influencing melting point and their role in classification of solid drugs. Another study is MTP two, which focuses on general melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks.

Other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies, including Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two. These studies involve neighborhood behavior, a useful concept for validation of molecular diversity descriptors.

Benzo thirty-two involves syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six-alkoxyimidazo pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor. PHENETYL one involves QSAR Hansch analysis and related approaches. PAH focuses on weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors, theory development, and applications on modeling physicochemical properties of polyaromatic hydrocarbons.

PDGF-R involves the development of linear, ensemble, and non-linear models for the prediction and interpretation of biological activity of a set of PDGF-R inhibitors. Phen involves interrelationship of regression models used for structure-activity analyses.

Topo two one and Y Prop four one involve predictive toxicology benchmarking molecular descriptors and statistical methods. QSAR BR one and QSAR BR two involve comparison of QSAR models for toxicity and biodegradability of anilines and phenols. QSARTOX involves QSAR for acute toxicity of saturated and unsaturated halogenated aliphatic compounds.

QSBR RW one involves structure-biodegradability relationships for chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans. QSBR Y two involves a mechanistic approach to deriving QSBR – a case study dehalogenation of haloaliphatic compounds. QSBR Alks involves mechanism-based quantitative structure-biodegradability relationships for hydrolytic dehalogenation of chloro- and bromo-alkenes.

QSFR DH LA involves quantitative structure-function relationships of the single-point mutants of haloalkane dehalogenase – a multivariate approach. QSFSR one and QSFSR two involve quantitative structure-function and structure-stability relationships of purposely modified proteins.

QSPR CMPX involves stability of aromatic amides with bromide anion – quantitative structure-property relationships. Selwood involves structure-activity relationships of antifilarial antimycin analogues – a multivariate pattern recognition study.

Keywords: drug design, machine learning, mathematics, molecular descriptors, QSAR, biodegradability, toxicity, structure-activity relationships, pharmacological evaluation, molecular modeling.