This dataset is part of forty-one drug design datasets formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from original studies. Each dataset has eleven hundred forty-three features.

The Carbolenes dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP two dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, Yokoyama two datasets were derived from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The MTP dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling in two thousand five.

The Benzo thirty-two dataset was derived from a study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The Phenethyl one dataset was derived from a book titled QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches edited by H Kubinyi and published by VCH in nineteen ninety-three.

The PAH dataset was derived from a study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five.

The PDGFR dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four.

The Phen dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The Topo two one and Y Prop four one datasets were derived from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three.

The QSAR BR one, QSAR BR two datasets were derived from a study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-seven.

The QSAR Tox dataset was derived from a study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-eight.

The QSBR RW one dataset was derived from a book chapter titled Structure-Biodegradability Relationships for Chlorinated Dibenzo-p-Dioxins and Dibenzofurans published in nineteen ninety-eight.

The QSBR Y two dataset was derived from a book chapter titled A Mechanistic Approach to Deriving QSBR-A Case Study: Dehalogenation of Haloaliphatic Compounds published in nineteen ninety-eight.

The QSBR Alks dataset was derived from a study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-eight.

The QSFR DH LA dataset was derived from a study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-seven.

The QSFSR one and QSFSR two datasets were derived from a study published in the journal Protein Engineering in nineteen ninety-eight.

The QSPR CMPX dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences in two thousand.

The Selwood dataset was derived from a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Keywords: drug design, machine learning, statistics, QSAR, medicinal chemistry, chemical information, computational science, biodegradability, toxicity.