Aircraft Pricing Dataset
Tags: 

For a more comprehensive dataset with many more features, check out the Yacht/Motorboat Pricing Data dataset. 

What are the most important features in determining the price of a new or used aircraft? Is it the aircraft type, year, manufacturer, or other characteristics? This is one of many questions regarding the used/new aircraft markets I hope to answer with this dataset. The dataset contains aircraft that are for sale around the world. The data was scraped during the month of July.

The data was scraped from various websites using the Scrapy framework for Python. The content scraped includes new or used price, currency, category, year, make, model, location, serial number, registration number, total hours, engine one hours, engine two hours, prop one hours, prop two hours, total seats, flight rules, and national origin.

Keep in mind that the data was scraped from two different sources. Some of the data, such as new or used, engine one hours, engine two hours, prop one hours, prop two hours, total seats, and flight rules, was only easily accessible on one source, thus is missing for part of the dataset.

Flight Rules: Visual Flight Rules versus Instrument Flight Rules. In a nutshell, an aircraft equipped with Instrument Flight Rules is one where a pilot can fully navigate an aircraft using instruments in the cockpit. Any aircraft flying over a certain altitude, by law, has to be equipped with Instrument Flight Rules equipment. Beyond the Horizon means that an aircraft is equipped with a radar, but doesn't fully meet Instrument Flight Rules criteria. Visual Flight Rules refer to flying an aircraft by visually observing the surroundings.

Some of the terms used within total hours, engine one, engine two, prop one, prop two columns include Since Major Overhaul, Since New, Since Prop Overhaul, Since Factory Overhaul, Since Overhaul, Since Top Overhaul, and Since Factory Re-manufactured.

Thank you for checking out this dataset and happy analyzing!

Features: Condition, Price, Currency, Category, Year, Make, Model, Location, Serial Number, Registration, Total Hours, Total Seats, Flight Rules, National Origin

Keywords: aircraft pricing, aircraft market, flight rules, aircraft characteristics, aircraft features, aircraft dataset.