Daily Exchange Rates per Euro 1999-2021
Tags: Life Science, Medicine

It wasn't until the year nineteen ninety-nine that the Euro really began its journey, when eleven countries, namely Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain, fixed their exchange rates and created a new currency with monetary policy passed to the European Central Bank. Today, the Euro is over twenty years old.

Content
Reference rates are Euro foreign exchange rates observed on major foreign exchange trading venues at a certain point in time, which means they are the price of one currency in terms of another currency. The rates are usually updated around sixteen hundred hours Central European Time on every working day, except on TARGET closing days.

Dataset contains the date and Euro rate corresponding to the Australian Dollar, Bulgarian Lev, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Swiss Franc, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Cypriot Pound, Czech Koruna, Danish Krone, Estonian Kroon, UK Pound Sterling, Greek Drachma, Hong Kong Dollar, Croatian Kuna, Hungarian Forint, Indonesian Rupiah, Israeli Shekel, Indian Rupee, Icelandic Krona, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, Lithuanian Litas, Latvian Lats, Maltese Lira, Mexican Peso, Malaysian Ringgit, Norwegian Krone, New Zealand Dollar, Philippine Peso, Polish Zloty, Romanian Leu, Russian Rouble, Swedish Krona, Singapore Dollar, Slovenian Tolar, Slovak Koruna, Thai Baht, Turkish Lira, US Dollar, and South African Rand.

Some currencies in the list do not exist anymore; they were replaced by the Euro: the Cypriot Pound in two thousand seven, the Estonian Kroon in two thousand eleven, the Greek Drachma in two thousand two, the Lithuanian Litas in two thousand fifteen, the Latvian Lats in two thousand fourteen, the Maltese Lira in two thousand eight, the Slovenian Tolar in two thousand seven, and the Slovak Koruna in two thousand nine. The Bulgarian Lev has been pegged to the Euro since two thousand two, with an exchange rate of one Euro equal to one point nine five five eight Leva.

Acknowledgments
All data provided by the European Central Bank Statistical Data Warehouse, EXR - Exchange Rates. The dataset is versioned and stays on weekly updates.

Keywords: Euro, exchange rates, European Central Bank, currency, monetary policy.