GEMLeR provides a collection of gene expression datasets that can be utilized for benchmarking gene expression-oriented machine learning algorithms. These datasets can be employed for estimating diverse quality metrics, such as accuracy, precision, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, for classification, feature selection, or clustering algorithms.

This repository was inspired by an increasing need in the machine learning and bioinformatics communities for a compilation of microarray classification problems that could be utilized by different researchers. This way, numerous classification or feature selection techniques can finally be compared to each other on the same set of problems.

The origin of the data is attributed to the Expression Project for Oncology (expO), a large publicly available repository by the International Genomics Consortium. The primary objective of expO and its consortium supporters is to procure tissue samples under standardized conditions and perform gene expression analyses on a clinically annotated set of de-identified tumor samples. The tumor data is updated with clinical outcomes and is released into the public domain without intellectual property restrictions. This availability of information translates into direct benefits for patients, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies alike.

A decision to utilize data from the expO repository was made due to several factors, including the consistency of tissue sample processing procedures, the same microarray platform being used for all samples, the availability of additional information for combined genotype-phenotype studies, and the availability of a large number of samples for different tumor types.

When publishing material based on GEMLeR datasets, please note the assistance received by utilizing this repository. This will enable others to obtain the same datasets and replicate experiments.

Features include gene expression samples and related data.

Keywords: gene expression, machine learning, microarray analysis, bioinformatics, oncology, genomics, classification, feature selection, clustering.