The Fourth Competition, M Four, started on January First, Two Thousand Eighteen and ended on May Thirty-First, Two Thousand Eighteen. The M Four extended and replicated the results of the previous three competitions, using an extended and diverse set of time series to identify the most accurate forecasting method or methods for different types of predictions. It aimed to provide answers on how to improve forecasting accuracy and identify the most appropriate methods for each case. To get precise and compelling answers, the M Four Competition utilized a large number of real-life series, and incorporated all major forecasting methods, including those based on Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, as well as traditional statistical ones.

The time series were downloaded via the R package M Four Comp Two Thousand Eighteen and then loaded with a Python script to obtain the different datasets: Yearly, Quarterly, Monthly, Weekly, Daily, Hourly. The data in R already gives us some kind of date as the index for the time series. There are five columns: Series Identifier, Category, Value, Date, and Time Step. The Series Identifier is the identifier of a time series. The Category is the category of a time series. The Value is the value of the time series at a given Time Step. The Date is the reconstructed date of the time series in the format Year-Month-Day. Note that the participants did not have access to the date of the time series during the competition. Besides, some dates are ambiguous due to the representation of only two digits for the year.

Preprocessing involved transforming the original index, which were the number of weeks since the Unix epoch, into the Date. This time, we did not correct for year greater than Two Thousand Eighteen, even though we identified year greater than Two Thousand Eighteen for series W Forty-Four, W Forty, W Forty-Eight, and W Thirty-Nine. We also defined columns Series Identifier and Category as category, casted Date to string and Time Step to integer.

The required number of forecast values to be forecasted for each time series, for the Weekly dataset, was always thirteen. Therefore, if one wants to evaluate their model to be compared with other models from the original competition, the last thirteen values of each time series are considered the test dataset.

Keywords: M Four Competition, Time Series Forecasting, Weekly Data, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistical Methods.