Vowel Tags: Label Ranking

Features: 
A One, A Two, A Three, A Four, A Five, A Six, A Seven, A Eight, A Nine, A Ten, L One, L Two, L Three, L Four, L Five, L Six, L Seven, L Eight, L Nine, L Ten, L Eleven

Scraped Data: Dataset Information

Additional Information 

To demonstrate the Recency, Frequency, Monetary, Time, and Charity marketing model, a modified version of the traditional Recency, Frequency, and Monetary model, this study adopted the donor database of the Blood Transfusion Service Center in Hsin-Chu City in Taiwan. The center passes their blood transfusion service bus to one university in Hsin-Chu City to gather blood donated about every three months. To build a Recency, Frequency, Monetary, Time, and Charity model, we selected donors at random from the donor database. These donor data, each one included Recency, Frequency, Monetary, Time, and a binary variable representing whether he or she donated blood in March, two thousand and seven. 

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information 

Given is the variable name, variable type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The "Blood Transfusion Service Center" is a classification problem. The order of this listing corresponds to the order of numerals along the rows of the database. 

Recency, Frequency, Monetary, Time, and a binary variable representing whether he or she donated blood in March, two thousand and seven. 

Table One shows the descriptive statistics of the data. We selected data at random as the training set, and the rest as the testing set. 

Table One. Descriptive statistics of the data 

Variable Data Type Measurement Description 
Recency quantitative Months Input 
Frequency quantitative Times Input 
Monetary quantitative c.c. blood Input 
Time quantitative Months Input 
Whether he or she donated blood in March, two thousand and seven binary one equals yes zero equals no Output 

Keywords: Blood Transfusion, Donor Database, Marketing Model, Recency, Frequency, Monetary, Time, Charity