This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The carbolenes dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The mtp two dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The chang, cristalli, depreux, doherty, garrat two, garrat, heyl, krystek, lewis, penning, rosowsky, siddiqi, stevenson, strupcz, svensson, thompson, tsutumi, uejling, yokoyama one, and yokoyama two datasets are taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The mtp dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model in two thousand five.

The benzo thirty-two dataset is taken from the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The phenetyle one dataset is taken from the book QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches published in nineteen ninety-three.

The pah dataset is taken from the study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five.

The pdgfr dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand four.

The phen dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The topo two one and yprop four one datasets are taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three.

The qsar br one, qsar br two, qsartox, qsbr rw one, qsbr y two, qsbralks, qsfrdhla, qsfsr one, qsfsr two, and qspr cmpx datasets are taken from various studies published in different journals and books.

The selwood dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Features include molecular descriptors and properties.

Keywords: drug design, machine learning, mathematics, molecular descriptors, quantitative structure-activity relationships.