The data sets in this directory are taken from the book titled "The Multivariate Social Scientist: Introductory Statistics Using Generalized Linear Models". 

These data sets are presented in two formats, namely ASCII and SPSS Portable. Additionally, the GLIM code and macros are provided in separate files.

Please note that there may be some minor differences between these data sets and those reported in the book, as indicated in the errata file.

The data file sources in the book along with their descriptions are as follows:

Chapter One contains table one point one, which deals with video games and hostility.

Chapter Two consists of tables two point one, two point two, and two point three, which cover normal errors, skewed errors, and curvilinearity respectively.

Chapter Three comprises tables three point one, three point five, three point seven, and three point eleven, which examine two simple models, cost and sound quality, exam marks and college offers, and the quality of children's testimonies respectively. 

In table three point eleven, age is categorized into two groups, namely five to six years old and eight to nine years old, represented by zero and one respectively. Similarly, gender is classified into female and male, represented by zero and one respectively. Furthermore, location is divided into four categories, namely home, school, police interview, and special interview, denoted by one, two, three, and four respectively.

Table three point eleven d contains the same data as table three point eleven but with indicator dummy codes added.

Chapter Four consists of tables four point one and four point fourteen, which investigate infection severity and treatment outcome, and infection severity, treatment outcome, and hospital attended respectively.

In table four point one, treatment outcome is categorized into two groups, namely survived and died, represented by zero and one respectively.

In table four point fourteen, hospital is classified into three categories, namely hospital A, hospital B, and hospital C, denoted by one, two, and three respectively. Table four point fourteen d contains the same data as table four point fourteen but with dummy codes added.

The child witness data is a copy of table three point eleven, but it includes prosecution information. The logis file provides the data to obtain the parameters calculated in the book.

Chapter Five consists of tables five point one, five point four, five point seven, five point eight, five point ten, five point eleven, five point thirteen, five point sixteen, and five point seventeen, which examine job satisfaction for doctors and dentists, race housing and illness, dopamine and psychosis, treatment and depression, alcohol consumption and libido, and other related topics.

Chapter Six contains table six point eleven, which deals with the child witness example data set.

Features of the dataset include subject, questions one to fourteen, comprehension, and accuracy.

Keywords: multivariate social scientist, generalized linear models, statistics, data sets, child witness, testimony, psychology, medicine, education.