This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Cannabinoid CB2 Receptor, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

The features represent Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was published in September two thousand fifteen.

The Cannabinoid CB2 Receptor is a single protein preferred name, also known as Cannabinoid Receptor Two, CB Two, CB-Two, Cnr Two, and rCB Two. It belongs to the species group Rattus Norvegicus and is classified as a one Membrane Receptor Family A G Protein-Coupled Receptor Small Molecule Receptor Family A GPCR Lipid-Like Ligand Receptor Family A GPCR Cannabinoid Receptor.

It has various synonyms, including Cannabinoid Receptor Two, CB Two, CB-Two, Cnr Two, and rCB Two.

The dataset is related to the description of the Cannabinoid Receptor Two, which is a Single Protein.

In the Expression Atlas, there is one entry for this receptor. In the Go Component section, there are nine entries, including cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum, plasma membrane, membrane, dendrite, extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane, cell projection, neuronal cell body, and perikaryon.

In the Go Function section, there are two entries, including G Protein-Coupled Receptor Activity and Cannabinoid Receptor Activity.

In the Go Process section, there are fourteen entries, including Response to Amphetamine, Inflammatory Response, Signal Transduction, G Protein-Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, Adenylate Cyclase-Activating G Protein-Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, Regulation of Metabolic Process, Leukocyte Chemotaxis, Negative Regulation of Synaptic Transmission GABAergic, Response to Lipopolysaccharide, Negative Regulation of Mast Cell Activation, Cannabinoid Signaling Pathway, Negative Regulation of Action Potential, Response to Stimulus, and Negative Regulation of Nitric-Oxide Synthase Activity.

Keywords: Cannabinoid CB2 Receptor, QSAR, MetaQSAR, G Protein-Coupled Receptor, Signal Transduction, Inflammatory Response, Cannabinoid Signaling Pathway.