QSAR-TID-30050 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four, and it has rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four. The dataset has rows and features including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was created in September two thousand fifteen. The dataset should be cited as it contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four.

The dataset contains information about the drug target Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four, which is a single protein and is also known as KIAA0213, MAP3K4, MAPK/ERK Kinase Kinase Four, MAPKKK4, and MAP Three Kinase One. The drug target is an enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, and STE protein kinase group, and STE protein kinase STE11 family.

The dataset contains information about the expression of Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four in Homo sapiens, and it is classified as an enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, and STE protein kinase group, and STE protein kinase STE11 family. The dataset also contains information about the function of Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four, which includes nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, MAP kinase kinase kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and metal ion binding.

The dataset contains information about the process of Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four, which includes MAPK cascade, placenta development, protein phosphorylation, response to UV-C, regulation of gene expression, phosphorylation, male germ-line sex determination, positive regulation of telomere maintenance via telomerase, intracellular signal transduction, positive regulation of JUN kinase activity, positive regulation of telomerase activity, chorionic trophoblast cell differentiation, and positive regulation of p38MAPK cascade.

Keywords: QSAR, Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase Four, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, MetaQSAR project, drug target, enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, STE protein kinase group, STE protein kinase STE11 family.