The COVID-19 Case Surveillance Public Use Dataset 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

Context and Content 

The COVID-19 case surveillance system database comprises individual-level data reported to US states and autonomous reporting entities, including New York City and the District of Columbia, as well as US territories and states. In response to the pandemic, COVID-19 was added to the Nationally Notifiable Condition List and classified as immediately notifiable, urgent, by a Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists Interim Position Statement. This statement was later updated to provide clarity on the interpretation of antigen detection tests and serologic test results within the case classification. Furthermore, it recommended that all states and territories enact laws to make COVID-19 reportable in their jurisdiction, and that jurisdictions conducting surveillance should submit case notifications to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 

The COVID-19 case surveillance data are collected by jurisdictions and shared voluntarily with the CDC. For more information, please visit the CDC website. The de-identified data in the public use dataset encompass demographic characteristics, exposure history, disease severity indicators, and outcomes, clinical data, laboratory diagnostic test results, and co-morbidities. A comprehensive list of all data elements can be accessed on the COVID-19 case report form.

Acknowledgement 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 

Inspiration 
The dataset serves as a valuable resource for researchers investigating various aspects of the pandemic, including demographic trends of COVID-19 cases and deaths.

Features 
Date of Report, Date of Positive Specimen Collection, Date of Symptom Onset, Current Status, Sex, Age Group, Race and Ethnicity, Hospitalization, Intensive Care Unit Admission, Death, Presence of Underlying Medical Conditions

Keywords: COVID-19, Case Surveillance, Public Health, Data Analysis, Research, Pandemic.