This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, MTP Two, Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two. These studies were used to develop machine learning models for predicting various properties of molecules.

The Carbolenes dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The MTP Two dataset was used to predict the melting points of solid drugs. The Chang dataset was used to validate molecular diversity descriptors. The Cristalli dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Depreux dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Doherty dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Garrat Two dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Garrat dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Heyl dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Krystek dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Lewis dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Penning dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Rosowsky dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Siddiqi dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Stevenson dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Strupcz dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Svensson dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Thompson dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Tsutumi dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Uejling dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Yokoyama One dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds. The Yokoyama Two dataset was used to predict the activity of certain chemical compounds.

Other datasets include Benzo Thirty-Two, Phenetyl One, PAH, PDGF-R, Phen, Topo Two One, Y Prop Four One, QSAR BR One, QSAR BR Two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW One, QSBR Y Two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR One, QSFSR Two, and QSPrCmpX. These datasets were used to predict various properties of molecules, including their melting points, bioactivities, and toxicities.

Keywords: machine learning, mathematics, drug design, molecular descriptors, quantitative structure-activity relationships.