Balance Scale Tags: Artificial, Machine Learning, OpenML-CC18, OpenML100, Shark-Tutorial-Demo-Tag, Study One, Study One Hundred Twenty Three, Study One Hundred Thirty Five, Study Fourteen, Study Thirty Four, Study Thirty Seven, Study Forty One, Study Fifty, Study Fifty Two, Study Seven, Study Seventy, Study Ninety Eight, Study Ninety Nine, UCI 

The Balance Scale Weight and Distance Database was generated to model psychological experimental results. Each example is classified as having the balance scale tip to the right, tip to the left, or be balanced. The attributes are the left weight, the left distance, the right weight, and the right distance. 

The correct way to find the class is the greater of the product of the left distance and the left weight, and the product of the right distance and the right weight. If these two products are equal, then the balance scale is balanced.

Attribute Description
The attributes are the left weight, the left distance, the right weight, and the right distance.

Relevant Papers 
This database was created based on cognitive development models related to balance scale phenomena.

Dataset Information 
Additional Information 
This data set was generated to model psychological experimental results. Each example is classified as having the balance scale tip to the right, tip to the left, or be balanced. The attributes are the left weight, the left distance, the right weight, and the right distance. The correct way to find the class is the greater of the product of the left distance and the left weight, and the product of the right distance and the right weight. If these two products are equal, then the balance scale is balanced.

Has Missing Values?
No 

Additional Variable Information 
Class Name has three possible values: Left, Balanced, and Right.
Left Weight has five possible values.
Left Distance has five possible values.
Right Weight has five possible values.
Right Distance has five possible values.

Keywords: Balance Scale, Psychological Experimental Results, Weight, Distance, Classification, Cognitive Development Models.