Are Two Sentences of the Same Topic?

Tags: Computer Systems, Transportation

Do two sentences come from the same article? We randomly sampled sentences from across Wikipedia. Some sentences came from the same articles, while others do not.

Sentences from the Same Article

These two sentences are from the same article. There were housing units at an average density of per square mile. It is also home to the state reformatory, located in Granite.

So are these: Monument of the Judiciary Citadel of Salerno, near the Colle Bellara hill. The La Carnale Castle got its name from a medieval battle against the Arabs and is part of a sports complex featuring a swimming pool, tennis courts, and hockey fields.

As are these: The idea of Haar measure is to take a sort of limit of as becomes smaller to make it additive on all pairs of disjoint compact sets, though it first has to be normalized so that the limit is not just infinity. When left and right Haar measures differ, the right measure is usually preferred as a prior distribution for statistical analysis.

Sentences from Different Articles

These two sentences are from different articles: Open women's doubles champion ranked world number one. The average household size was larger than the national average, and the average family size was also larger than usual.

As are these: The initial goal of the WordNet project was to build a lexical database that would be consistent with theories of human semantic memory developed in recent decades. Males had a higher median income compared to females.

These are also different: Meanwhile, Western foods rich in fat, salt, sugar, and refined starches are also imported into countries with limited local food production. According to the United States Census Bureau, the community development program has a total area of land and water.

Disclaimer

Please note that we attempted to remove any data sampled that includes controversial words or hate speech. However, such language is present in Wikipedia, so some such material may be present in this dataset. Due to the size of this dataset, it was not possible to have a human being audit each sentence.

Keywords: Haar measure, lexical database, semantic memory, median income, food production, community development.