The Estonia Disaster Passenger List

Introduction

On a fateful night in September, the ferry Estonia set sail on a voyage across the Baltic Sea from the port of Tallinn in Estonia to Stockholm. The ship departed in the evening, carrying nearly a thousand passengers and crew, as well as vehicles, and was due to dock the following morning. Tragically, the Estonia never arrived.

The weather was typically stormy for the time of year, but like all the other scheduled ferries on that day, the Estonia set off as usual. At roughly one o'clock in the morning, a worrying sound of screeching metal was heard, but an immediate inspection of the bow visor showed nothing untoward. The ship suddenly listed fifteen minutes later, and soon alarms were sounding, including the lifeboat alarm. Shortly afterwards, the Estonia rolled drastically to starboard. Those who had reached the decks had a chance of survival, but those who had not were doomed as the angled corridors had become death traps.

A Mayday signal was sent, but power failure meant the ship's position was given imprecisely. The Estonia disappeared from the responding ships' radar screens, and rescue efforts were severely hampered. The Marietta arrived at the scene, and the first helicopter arrived soon after. Of the people rescued alive, one died later in hospital. Of the people who had reached the decks, almost a third died of hypothermia. The final death toll was shockingly high.

An official inquiry found that the failure of the locks on the bow visor, which broke away under the punishing waves, caused water to flood the car deck and quickly capsize the ship. The report also noted a lack of action, delay in sounding the alarm, lack of guidance from the bridge, and a failure to light distress flares. The sinking of the Estonia was Europe's worst post-war maritime disaster.

Facts

When was the Sinking of the Estonia: Late September
Where was the Sinking of the Estonia: Near the Turku Archipelago, in the Baltic Sea
What was the Sinking of the Estonia death toll: Extremely high

Interesting things to investigate about the data:

Who is more likely to survive the sinking based on data?
Is age an indicator for survival?
Is gender an indicator for survival?
Did the crew aboard have a higher chance of survival than passengers?
Since the death toll is extremely high, can you make a classifier that beats the baseline?

Video

Watch the Zero Hour documentary about the disaster.

Features:

Passenger Country, First Name, Last Name, Sex, Age, Category, Survived

Keywords: Estonia, ferry, disaster, Baltic Sea, maritime, survival, hypothermia, rescue, inquiry.