Dermatology Database

Source Information:
Original Owners: 
Donor: 
Date: January 1998

Past Usage:
The aim is to determine the type of Erythemato-Squamous Disease.

Relevant Information:
This database contains thirty-four attributes, thirty-three of which are linear valued and one of them is nominal. The differential diagnosis of erythemato-squamous diseases is a real problem in dermatology. They all share the clinical features of erythema and scaling, with very little differences. The diseases in this group are Psoriasis, Seborrheic Dermatitis, Lichen Planus, Pityriasis Rosea, Chronic Dermatitis, and Pityriasis Rubra Pilaris. Usually, a biopsy is necessary for the diagnosis, but unfortunately, these diseases share many histopathological features as well. Another difficulty for the differential diagnosis is that a disease may show the features of another disease at the beginning stage and may have the characteristic features at the following stages. 

Patients were first evaluated clinically with twelve features. Afterwards, skin samples were taken for the evaluation of twenty-two histopathological features. The values of the histopathological features are determined by an analysis of the samples under a microscope. 

In the dataset constructed for this domain, the Family History feature has the value one if any of these diseases has been observed in the family, and zero otherwise. The Age feature simply represents the age of the patient. Every other feature, both clinical and histopathological, was given a degree in the range of zero to three. Here, zero indicates that the feature was not present, three indicates the largest amount possible, and one, two indicate the relative intermediate values.

Number of Instances: 
Number of Attributes: 

Attribute Information:
Clinical Attributes take values zero, one, two, three, unless otherwise indicated.
Erythema, Scaling, Definite Borders, Itching, Koebner Phenomenon, Polygonal Papules, Follicular Papules, Oral Mucosal Involvement, Knee and Elbow Involvement, Scalp Involvement, Family History, and Age.
Histopathological Attributes take values zero, one, two, three.
Melanin Incontinence, Eosinophils in the Infiltrate, PNL Infiltrate, Fibrosis of the Papillary Dermis, Exocytosis, Acanthosis, Hyperkeratosis, Parakeratosis, Clubbing of the Rete Ridges, Elongation of the Rete Ridges, Thinning of the Suprapapillary Epidermis, Spongiform Pustule, Munro Microabcess, Focal Hypergranulosis, Disappearance of the Granular Layer, Vacuolisation and Damage of Basal Layer, Spongiosis, Saw-Tooth Appearance of Retes, Follicular Horn Plug, Perifollicular Parakeratosis, Inflammatory Monoluclear Infiltrate, Band-Like Infiltrate.

Missing Attribute Values:
Eight in Age attribute, distinguished with question mark.

Class Distribution:
Database: Dermatology
Class Code: Class: Number of Instances: Psoriasis, Seborrheic Dermatitis, Lichen Planus, Pityriasis Rosea, Chronic Dermatitis, Pityriasis Rubra Pilaris.

Keywords: dermatology, erythemato-squamous diseases, psoriasis, seborrheic dermatitis, lichen planus, pityriasis rosea, chronic dermatitis, pityriasis rubra pilaris, clinical attributes, histopathological attributes.