MicroMass Tags: OpenML, study, study, study, study

Description
MicroMass (pure spectra version) is a dataset designed to explore machine learning approaches for the identification of microorganisms from mass-spectrometry data.

Data Set Information
This MALDI-TOF dataset consists of two main components:

a) A reference panel of twenty Gram positive and negative bacterial species covering nine genera, among which several species are known to be challenging to discriminate by mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF). Each species was represented by eleven to sixty mass spectra obtained from seven to twenty bacterial strains, constituting altogether a dataset of spectra obtained from strains. The spectra were acquired according to the standard culture-based workflow used in clinical routine, in which the microorganism was first grown on an agar plate for twenty-four to forty-eight hours before a portion of the colony was picked, spotted on a MALDI slide, and a mass spectrum was acquired.

b) Based on this reference panel, a dedicated in vitro mock-up mixture dataset was created. For this purpose, ten pairs of species of various taxonomic proximity were considered:
* Four mixtures, labeled A, B, C, and D, involved species that belong to the same genus.
* Two mixtures, labeled E and F, involved species that belong to distinct genera, but to the same Gram type.
* Four mixtures, labeled G, H, I, and J, involved species that belong to distinct Gram types.

Each mixture was represented by two pairs of strains, which were mixed according to nine concentration ratios: one to zero, ten to one, five to one, two to one, one to one, one to two, one to five, one to ten, and zero to one. Two replicate spectra were acquired for each concentration ratio and each couple of strains, leading altogether to a dataset of spectra, among which are actually pure sample spectra.

Relevant Papers
Automatic identification of mixed bacterial species fingerprints in a MALDI-TOF mass-spectrum. Bioinformatics.
A benchmark of support vector machines strategies for microbial identification by mass-spectrometry data, submitted

Features: [List of features omitted due to length and unreadability]

Keywords: MicroMass, mass-spectrometry, bacterial identification, MALDI-TOF, machine learning, microbial fingerprints, species mixtures