The M4 Competition for Time Series Forecasting, Monthly Data

The fourth competition, M4, started on January first, two thousand eighteen, and ended on May thirty-first, two thousand eighteen. The M4 extended and replicated the results of the previous three competitions, using an extended and diverse set of time series to identify the most accurate forecasting method or methods for different types of predictions. It aimed to provide answers on how to improve forecasting accuracy and identify the most appropriate methods for each case. To get precise and compelling answers, the M4 Competition utilized a large number of real-life series, and incorporated all major forecasting methods, including those based on Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, as well as traditional statistical ones.

The time series were downloaded via the R package M four comp two thousand eighteen and then loaded with a Python script to obtain the different datasets: Yearly, Quarterly, Monthly, Weekly, Daily, Hourly. The data in R already gives us some kind of date as the index for the time series. There are five columns: the identifier of a time series, the category of a time series, the value of the time series at time step, the reconstructed date of the time series in the format year-month-day. Note that the participants did not have access to the date of the time series during the competition. Besides, some dates are ambiguous due to the representation of only two digits for the year, which could represent different years.

Preprocessing involved fixing the series for which we have a year greater than two thousand eighteen at some point by offsetting the whole series by one hundred years until we have maximum year less than or equal to two thousand eighteen. We also defined columns, the identifier of a time series and the category, as category, casted the date to string and time step to integer.

The required number of forecast values to be forecasted for each time series, for the Monthly dataset, was always eighteen. Therefore, if one wants to evaluate their model to be compared with other models from the original competition, the last eighteen values of each time series are considered the test dataset.

Keywords: Time Series Forecasting, M4 Competition, Monthly Data, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistical Methods, Real-Life Series, Forecasting Accuracy.