Acknowledgments 

The data was scraped from Booking.com. All data in the file is publicly available to everyone already. The data is originally owned by Booking.com. 

Data Context 

This dataset contains customer reviews and scoring of luxury hotels across Europe. Meanwhile, the geographical location of hotels are also provided for further analysis.

Data Content 

The CSV file contains seventeen fields. The description of each field is as follows:

Hotel Address: Address of hotel.
Review Date: Date when reviewer posted the corresponding review.
Average Score: Average Score of the hotel, calculated based on the latest comment in the last year.
Hotel Name: Name of Hotel 
Reviewer Nationality: Nationality of Reviewer 
Negative Review: Negative Review the reviewer gave to the hotel. If the reviewer does not give the negative review, then it should be: 'No Negative'
Review Total Negative Word Counts: 
Positive Review: Positive Review the reviewer gave to the hotel. If the reviewer does not give the negative review, then it should be: 'No Positive'
Review Total Positive Word Counts:
Reviewer Score: Score the reviewer has given to the hotel, based on his/her experience 
Total Number of Reviews:
Tags: Tags reviewer gave the hotel.
Days Since Review: Duration between the review date and scrape date.
Latitude: Latitude of the hotel 
Longitude: Longitude of the hotel 

In order to keep the text data clean, I removed Unicode and punctuation in the text data and transformed text into lower case. No other preprocessing was performed.

Inspiration 

The dataset is large and informative, allowing users to have a lot of fun exploring it! Some potential ideas include fitting a regression model on reviews and score to see which words are more indicative to a higher/lower score; performing a sentiment analysis on the reviews; finding correlation between reviewer's nationality and scores; creating beautiful and informative visualizations on the dataset; clustering hotels based on reviews; and developing a simple recommendation engine to the guest who is fond of a special characteristic of hotel. The possibilities are endless!

Keywords: hotel reviews, Europe, luxury hotels, sentiment analysis, recommendation engine, clustering, visualization.