Life Science, Machine Learning, MTLQSAR, study three 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target. It has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature. The features represent molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was released in September. 

The data contains information about a single protein preferred name oxytocin receptor also known as otr ot-r oxtr oxytocin receptor. The organism is rattus norvegicus species group. The protein target classification is one membrane receptor family a g protein coupled receptor peptide receptor family a gpcr short peptide receptor family a gpcr vasopressin and oxytocin receptor.

The description relationship accession oxytocin receptor single protein. 

There are multiple go components including plasma membrane microvillus adherens junction membrane apical plasma membrane. 

Go functions include g protein coupled receptor activity oxytocin receptor activity vasopressin receptor activity protein binding peptide hormone binding peptide binding.

Go processes include suckling behavior response to amphetamine regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure by vasopressin signal transduction g protein coupled receptor signaling pathway positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration heart development female pregnancy memory response to xenobiotic stimulus positive regulation of norepinephrine secretion response to organic cyclic compound telencephalon development positive regulation of synaptic transmission gabaaergic response to estradiol response to progesterone cellular response to hormone stimulus response to anoxia response to cytokine social behavior response to cocaine maternal behavior sperm ejaculation eating behavior response to peptide hormone estrous cycle positive regulation of blood pressure positive regulation of vasoconstriction response to steroid hormone digestive tract development regulation of secretion positive regulation of synapse assembly positive regulation of synaptic transmission glutamatergic maternal process involved in parturition positive regulation of penile erection erk one and erk two cascade positive regulation of uterine smooth muscle contraction positive regulation of cold induced thermogenesis.

Other information includes can sar target guide to pharmacology int act reactome uniprot inter pro pfam.

Keywords: QSAR, oxytocin receptor, machine learning, molecular fingerprints, MetaQSAR project.