This dataset is part of forty-one drug design datasets. Each dataset consists of one thousand one hundred forty-three features formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies.

The Phen dataset is related to agriculture and earth science. It was created using Adriana Code software and contains data from various original studies.

Carbolenes is another dataset related to medicine and chemistry. It was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

MTP two is a dataset focused on melting points and their role in classifying solid drugs. It was originally published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two are all datasets related to medicinal chemistry and pharmacology. They were originally published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

MTP is a dataset focused on general melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks. It was originally published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling.

Benzo thirty-two is a dataset focused on synthesizing, pharmacologically evaluating, and modeling substituted six-alkoxyimidazo pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor. It was originally published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Phenet yl one is a dataset focused on quantitative structure-activity relationship analysis. It was originally published in the book QSAR: Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches.

Pah is a dataset focused on weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors and their application in modeling physiochemical properties of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. It was originally published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems.

PDGFR is a dataset focused on developing linear, ensemble, and non-linear models for predicting and interpreting biological activity of a set of PDGFR inhibitors. It was originally published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

Phen is a dataset focused on interrelationships of regression models used for structure-activity analysis. It was originally published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Topo two one and Yprop four one are datasets focused on predictive toxicology and benchmarking molecular descriptors and statistical methods. They were originally published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

Qsabr one, Qsabr two, Qsartox, Qsbr rw one, Qsbr y two, Qsbralks, Qsfrdhla, Qsf sr one, Qsf sr two, and Qspr cmpx are all datasets focused on quantitative structure-activity relationships, quantitative structure-biodegradability relationships, and quantitative structure-property relationships. They were originally published in various journals and books.

Keywords: drug design, agriculture, earth science, medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, quantitative structure-activity relationships, molecular descriptors, physiochemical properties, predictive toxicology.