This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID one thousand one hundred seventy-three, and it has rows and features including IDs and class feature MOLECULE CHEMBL ID and MEDIAN PX C fifty.

The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program dassault systèmes biovia. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

This dataset is part of the meta qsar project and was published in september two thousand fifteen.

QSAR TID one thousand one hundred seventy-three is also known as adam seventeen, a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain containing protein seventeen. It is a single protein preferred name and its synonyms include adam seventeen, adam seventeen cd antigen equals cd one five six b csv p disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain containing protein seventeen.

adam seventeen is an enzyme protease metallo protease metallo protease mam clan metallo protease m twelve b subfamily. Its mechanism of action involves inhibiting adam seventeen.

adam seventeen is expressed in golgi membrane, cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum lumen, cytosol, plasma membrane, cell cell junction, focal adhesion, and actin cytoskeleton.

adam seventeen is involved in various biological processes including response to hypoxia, positive regulation of protein phosphorylation, neutrophil mediated immunity, germinal center formation, positive regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis, proteolysis, membrane protein ectodomain proteolysis, cell adhesion, notch signaling pathway, and positive regulation of cell population proliferation.

adam seventeen interacts with various proteins including notch one, interleukin six receptor, integrin, and protein binding.

adam seventeen is also involved in various diseases including inflammatory skin and bowel disease, and neonatal disease.

Keywords: QSAR, TID, Adam17, Metalloproteinase, Proteolysis, Cell Adhesion, Notch Signaling Pathway.