Contaminant Detection in Packaged Cocoa Hazelnut Spread Jars Using Microwaves Sensing and Machine Learning 

This dataset is part of a series of five different datasets, each one measured with a different microwave frequency. The dataset presented in this page has been acquired at nine point five gigahertz. 

To detect contaminants accidentally included in industrial food, Microwave Sensing can be used as a contactless detection method, in particular when the food is already packaged. Microwave Sensing uses microwaves to illuminate the target object through a set of antennas, records the scattered waves, and uses Machine Learning to predict the presence of contaminants inside the target object. 

In this application, the target object is a cocoa hazelnut spread jar, and each instance, or sample, of this dataset consists of thirty scattering parameters of the network composed by antennas, target object with or without a contaminant inside, and medium, that is, the air, in between. The types of contaminants vary from metal to glass and plastic. Each sample has been measured at five different microwave frequencies.

The dataset characteristics include a total number of instances of twenty four hundred, with twelve hundred uncontaminated instances and twelve hundred contaminated instances. There are eleven classes in total. The last column contains the class label as an integer value. The contaminated instances are divided per class, including air surface, big pink plastic sphere middle, big pink plastic sphere surface, glass fragment middle, glass fragment surface, small metal sphere middle, small metal sphere surface, small plastic sphere middle, small plastic sphere surface, and small triangular plastic fragment surface. 

The number of attributes in a generic instance is thirty. The attribute information includes the six by six Scattering Matrix, which is composed of fifteen elements of the triangular upper part of the matrix. Since each of these elements is a complex number with real and imaginary parts, each instance is a vector of thirty attributes. The real and imaginary parts of each element are placed one after the other. 

The dataset is released without preprocessing. For more information, please refer to the reference papers.

Keywords: Microwave Sensing, Machine Learning, Contaminant Detection, Food Industry, Industrial Food, Packaging.