QSAR-TID-100918 Tags: Machine Learning, MTLQSAR, Study Three, Transportation

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: one hundred thousand nine hundred eighteen, and it has eighty-eight rows and one thousand twenty-six features including IDs and class feature. The features represent molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was released in September two thousand fifteen. It contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: one hundred thousand nine hundred eighteen.

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains eighty-eight rows and one thousand twenty-six features including IDs and class feature.

The preferred name for this protein target is myotonin-protein kinase. It is also known as DM one PK, DM one protein kinase, DMK, DM kinase, and DMPK.

It belongs to the species group Homo sapiens.

The protein target classification is enzyme, kinase, protein kinase, AGC protein kinase group, AGC protein kinase DMPK family, and AGC protein kinase GEK subfamily.

It has various functions including nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine threonine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, myosin phosphatase regulator activity, and metal ion binding.

It is involved in various biological processes including regulation of sodium ion transport, protein phosphorylation, intracellular calcium ion homeostasis, nuclear envelope organization, regulation of heart contraction, muscle cell apoptotic process, regulation of myotube differentiation, regulation of skeletal muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling, regulation of excitatory postsynaptic membrane potential involved in skeletal muscle contraction, phosphorylation, peptidyl-serine phosphorylation, and regulation of synapse structural plasticity.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, MTLQSAR, transportation, myotonin-protein kinase, protein kinase, AGC protein kinase, DMPK.