The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness. The first report was published, followed by subsequent reports, with the third report represented here, and the fourth report. The World Happiness Report, which ranks countries by their happiness levels, was released at the United Nations at an event celebrating International Day of Happiness. The report continues to gain global recognition as governments, organizations, and civil society increasingly use happiness indicators to inform their policy-making decisions.

Leading experts across fields, including economics, psychology, survey analysis, national statistics, health, public policy, and more, describe how measurements of well-being can be used effectively to assess the progress of nations. The reports review the state of happiness in the world today and show how the new science of happiness explains personal and national variations in happiness.

The happiness scores and rankings use data from the Gallup World Poll. The scores are based on answers to the main life evaluation question asked in the poll. This question, known as the Cantril ladder, asks respondents to think of a ladder with the best possible life for them being a ten and the worst possible life being a zero and to rate their own current lives on that scale.

The scores are from nationally representative samples and use the Gallup weights to make the estimates representative. The columns following the happiness score estimate the extent to which each of six factors – economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, absence of corruption, and generosity – contribute to making life evaluations higher in each country than they are in a hypothetical country that has values equal to the world’s lowest national averages for each of the six factors.

The columns, including GDP per capita, family, life expectancy, freedom, generosity, and trust government corruption, describe the extent to which these factors contribute in evaluating the happiness in each country. The Dystopia Residual metric is the Dystopia Happiness Score plus the residual value or the unexplained value for each country.

If you add all these factors up, you get the happiness score, so it might be unreliable to model them to predict happiness scores. The dataset includes features such as country, region, happiness rank, happiness score, standard error, economy, family, health, freedom, trust, generosity, and dystopia residual.

Keywords: World Happiness Report, global happiness, happiness indicators, well-being, Gallup World Poll, life evaluation, economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, absence of corruption, generosity.