acp-breast-cancer Tags: 

This dataset contains information on peptides annotated for their one-letter amino acid code and their anticancer activity on breast cancer cell lines. Membranolytic anticancer peptides are drawing increasing attention as potential future therapeutics against cancer, due to their ability to hinder the development of cellular resistance and their potential to overcome common hurdles of chemotherapy, such as side effects and cytotoxicity.

The dataset contains three attributes: Peptide Identification, One-Letter Amino Acid Sequence, and Class. The Class attribute is further divided into four categories: active, moderately active, experimentally inactive, and virtually inactive.

The dataset was assembled and curated manually from CancerPPD, a database of anticancer peptides. The EC50, IC50, LD50, and LC50 annotations on breast cancer cells were retained, and the values were converted from milligrams per milliliter to micromolar units. Linear and L-chiral peptides were retained, while cyclic, mixed, or D-chiral peptides were discarded.

In the presence of both amidated and non-amidated data for the same sequence, only the value referred to the amidated peptide was retained. Peptides were split into three classes for model training: very active peptides with EC/IC/LD/LC50 values less than or equal to five micromolar, moderately active peptides with EC/IC/LD/LC50 values up to fifty micromolar, and inactive peptides with EC/IC/LD/LC50 values greater than fifty micromolar.

Duplicates with conflicting class annotations were compared manually to the original sources, and if necessary, corrected. If multiple class annotations were present for the same sequence, the most frequently represented class was chosen; in case of ties, the less active class was chosen.

Since the CancerPPD is biased towards the annotation of active peptides, a set of presumably inactive peptides was built by randomly extracting alpha-helical sequences from crystal structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank. The final training set contained peptides for breast cancer.

Keywords: anticancer peptides, breast cancer, membranolytic peptides, chemotherapy, cellular resistance, side effects, cytotoxicity.