Covertype 

Tags: Computer Systems, Mathematics 

Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "classification on categorical and numerical features" benchmark.

Original description:

This is the original version of the famous Covertype dataset. Predicting forest cover type from cartographic variables only (no remotely sensed data). The actual forest cover type for a given observation (thirty by thirty meter cell) was determined from United States Forest Service Region Two Resource Information System data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from United States Geological Survey and United States Forest Service data. Data is in raw form (not scaled) and contains binary (zero or one) columns of data for qualitative independent variables (wilderness areas and soil types).

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices. Some background information for these four wilderness areas: Neota probably has the highest mean elevational value of the four wilderness areas. Rawah and Comanche Peak would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache la Poudre would have the lowest mean elevational value. As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have Spruce/Fir, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have Lodgepole Pine as their primary species, followed by Spruce/Fir and Aspen. Cache la Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa Pine, Douglas-Fir, and Cottonwood/Willow. The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache la Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values (elevation, etc.). Cache la Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Attribute Information: 
Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. 
Elevation is a quantitative measure in meters, representing the elevation in meters. 
Aspect is a quantitative measure in azimuth, representing the aspect in degrees azimuth. 
Slope is a quantitative measure in degrees, representing the slope in degrees. 
Horizontal Distance To Hydrology is a quantitative measure in meters, representing the horizontal distance to nearest surface water features. 
Vertical Distance To Hydrology is a quantitative measure in meters, representing the vertical distance to nearest surface water features. 
Horizontal Distance To Roadways is a quantitative measure in meters, representing the horizontal distance to nearest roadway. 
Hillshade Nine am is a quantitative measure from zero to two hundred fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at nine am, summer solstice. 
Hillshade Noon is a quantitative measure from zero to two hundred fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at noon, summer solstice. 
Hillshade Three pm is a quantitative measure from zero to two hundred fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at three pm, summer solstice. 
Horizontal Distance To Fire Points is a quantitative measure in meters, representing the horizontal distance to nearest wildfire ignition points. 
Wilderness Area designation consists of four binary columns, each representing the presence or absence of a particular wilderness area. 
Soil Type designation consists of forty binary columns, each representing the presence or absence of a particular soil type. 
Forest Cover Type designation is an integer value from one to seven, representing the forest cover type.

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, soil types, forest management practices, ecological processes.