Machine Learning, Statistics

This dataset belongs to the "classification on categorical and numerical features" benchmark.

The Covertype dataset predicts forest cover type from cartographic variables only, without using remotely sensed data. The actual forest cover type for a given observation, which is a thirty by thirty meter cell, was determined from United States Forest Service Region Two Resource Information System data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from United States Geological Survey and United States Forest Service data.

The data is in its raw form and has not been scaled. It contains binary columns of data for qualitative independent variables, including wilderness areas and soil types. This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices.

Some background information for these four wilderness areas is provided. For instance, Neota probably has the highest mean elevational value of the four wilderness areas. Rawah and Comanche Peak would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache la Poudre would have the lowest mean elevational value. As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce fir, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine as their primary species, followed by spruce fir and aspen. Cache la Poudre would tend to have Ponderosa pine, Douglas fir, and cottonwood willow.

The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache la Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values, including elevation. Cache la Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Attribute information is also provided. The forest cover type is the classification problem. The attributes include elevation in meters, aspect in degrees azimuth, slope in degrees, horizontal distance to hydrology in meters, vertical distance to hydrology in meters, horizontal distance to roadways in meters, hillshade indices at nine am, noon, and three pm, and horizontal distance to fire points in meters. Additionally, there are forty binary columns for soil type designation and four binary columns for wilderness area designation.

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, soil types, ecological processes, forest management practices.