The Friedman datasets consist of eighty artificially generated datasets originating from stochastic gradient boosting. The dataset names are coded as "Friedman Colinearity Degree Sample Number Feature Number".

The Friedman function includes both linear and nonlinear relations between input and output, and a normalized noise is added to the output. This function is as follows: the output variable is equal to ten times the sine of pi multiplied by the product of the first two input variables plus twenty times the square of the third input variable minus five plus ten times the fourth input variable plus five times the fifth input variable plus the error term.

In the original Friedman function, there are five features for input. To measure the effects of nonrelated features, additional features are added to the datasets. These added features are independent from the output. However, to measure the algorithm's robustness to collinearity, the datasets are generated with five different collinearity degrees. The collinearity degree is the number of features depending on other features.

The generated Friedman dataset's parameters and values are given below: the number of features varies, including five, ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred, where only the first five features are related to the output, and the rest are completely random; the number of samples varies, including one hundred, two hundred and fifty, five hundred, and one thousand; and the collinearity degrees vary, including zero, one, two, three, and four. 

For the datasets with collinearity degree four, the numbers of features are generated as ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred. The other datasets have five, ten, twenty-five, and fifty features. As a result, eighty artificial datasets are generated by combining different feature numbers, sample numbers, and collinearity degrees.

The last attribute in each file is the target.

Keywords: Friedman datasets, stochastic gradient boosting, collinearity degree, artificial datasets, feature selection, machine learning.