Filipino Family Income and Expenditure Tags: Context 

The Philippine Statistics Authority spearheads the conduct of the Family Income and Expenditure Survey nationwide. This survey, which is undertaken periodically, aims to provide data on family income and expenditure, including levels of consumption by item of expenditure, sources of income in cash, and related information affecting income and expenditure levels and patterns in the Philippines.

Content 

Inside this dataset is a selection of variables from the latest Family Income and Expenditure Survey in the Philippines. It contains numerous observations and variables, primarily comprising the household income and expenditures of specific households.

Acknowledgements 

The Philippine Statistics Authority is acknowledged for providing the publisher with their raw data.

Inspiration 

Socioeconomic classification models in the Philippines have been problematic, with no single model being widely accepted. Government bodies use their own models, while private research entities employ their own. Since household income is a significant indicator of socioeconomic classification, the publisher seeks to determine the best model in predicting household income, identify key drivers of household income, and create a sparse model. Additionally, exploratory analysis of the data would be beneficial.

Features 

Total Household Income, Region, Total Food Expenditure, Main Source of Income, Agricultural Household Indicator, Bread and Cereals Expenditure, Total Rice Expenditure, Meat Expenditure, Total Fish and Marine Products Expenditure, Fruit Expenditure, Vegetables Expenditure, Restaurant and Hotels Expenditure, Alcoholic Beverages Expenditure, Tobacco Expenditure, Clothing Footwear and Other Wear Expenditure, Housing and Water Expenditure, Imputed House Rental Value, Medical Care Expenditure, Transportation Expenditure, Communication Expenditure, Education Expenditure, Miscellaneous Goods and Services Expenditure, Special Occasions Expenditure, Crop Farming and Gardening Expenses, Total Income from Entrepreneurial Activities, Household Head Sex, Household Head Age, Household Head Marital Status, Household Head Highest Grade Completed, Household Head Job or Business Indicator, Household Head Occupation, Household Head Class of Worker, Type of Household, Total Number of Family Members, Members with Age Less Than Five Years Old, Members with Age Five to Seventeen Years Old, Total Number of Family Members Employed, Type of Building House, Type of Roof, Type of Walls, House Floor Area, House Age, Number of Bedrooms, Tenure Status, Toilet Facilities, Electricity, Main Source of Water Supply.

Keywords: Filipino Family Income, Expenditure Survey, Socioeconomic Classification, Household Income, Predictive Modeling