Bike Sharing Washington DC

Tags: Context Climate Change

Climate change is forcing cities to reimagine their transportation infrastructure. Shared mobility concepts, such as car sharing, bike sharing, or scooter sharing, are becoming increasingly popular. And if they are implemented well, they can actually contribute to mitigating climate change. Bike sharing, in particular, is interesting because no electricity or gasoline is necessary (unless e-bikes are used) for this mode of transportation. However, there are inherent problems to this type of shared mobility: varying demand at bike sharing stations needs to be balanced to avoid oversupply or shortages, and heavily used bikes break down more often. Forecasting the future demand can help address those issues. Moreover, demand forecasts can help operators decide whether to expand the business, determine adequate prices, and generate additional income through advertisements at particularly busy stations.

This dataset can be used to forecast demand to avoid oversupply and shortages. It spans from January 1 to December 31. Determining new station locations, analyzing movement patterns, or planning routes will only be possible with additional data.

The dataset includes the following features: date, average daily temperature, minimum daily temperature, maximum daily temperature, temperature at the time of observation, amount of precipitation, wind speed, and various weather types such as fog, thunder, sleet, hail, glaze, haze, drifting snow, high wind, mist, drizzle, rain, freezing rain, snow, ground fog, ice fog, freezing drizzle, and unknown source of precipitation. Additionally, it includes the number of unregistered customers, registered customers, total customers, and whether the day is a holiday or not.

Think about the following questions/topics and add more data to this dataset to improve your results: What will tomorrow's, next week's, or next month's bike demand? Use time series analysis to determine this. Use anomaly detection to identify seasonality and trend in daily customers' data. Which features are particularly important for the forecast of the bike demand?

Keywords: Bike Sharing, Climate Change, Transportation Infrastructure, Shared Mobility, Demand Forecasting, Weather Data, Time Series Analysis.