Bank Marketing

The Bank Marketing dataset is related to direct marketing campaigns of a Portuguese banking institution. These marketing campaigns were based on phone calls. Often, more than one contact to the same client was required, in order to assess if the product, namely a bank term deposit, would be or not subscribed.

The classification goal is to predict if the client will subscribe a term deposit. 

Attribute Information

Input variables include:

* Bank Client Data:
    + Age, which is numeric.
    + Job Type, which is categorical and may be administration, unknown, unemployed, management, housemaid, entrepreneur, student, blue collar, self employed, retired, technician, or services.
    + Marital Status, which is categorical and may be married, divorced, or single; note that divorced means divorced or widowed.
    + Education Level, which is categorical and may be unknown, secondary, primary, or tertiary.
    + Default Status, which is binary and indicates whether the client has credit in default or not.
    + Average Yearly Balance, which is numeric and represents the average yearly balance in euros.
    + Housing Loan Status, which is binary and indicates whether the client has a housing loan or not.
    + Personal Loan Status, which is binary and indicates whether the client has a personal loan or not.
* Last Contact Information:
    + Contact Communication Type, which is categorical and may be unknown, telephone, or cellular.
    + Last Contact Day, which is numeric and represents the day of the month when the last contact was made.
    + Last Contact Month, which is categorical and may be January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, or December.
    + Last Contact Duration, which is numeric and represents the duration of the last contact in seconds.
* Other Attributes:
    + Number of Contacts, which is numeric and represents the number of contacts performed during this campaign and for this client; this includes the last contact.
    + Number of Days Since Last Contact, which is numeric and represents the number of days that have passed since the client was last contacted from a previous campaign; a value of minus one means the client was not previously contacted.
    + Previous Number of Contacts, which is numeric and represents the number of contacts performed before this campaign and for this client.
    + Previous Campaign Outcome, which is categorical and may be unknown, other, failure, or success.

Output Variable:

* Has the Client Subscribed a Term Deposit?, which is binary and indicates whether the client has subscribed a term deposit or not.

Keywords: Bank Marketing, Direct Marketing, Phone Calls, Term Deposit, Client Subscription Prediction.