Are Two Sentences of the Same Topic

Tags: Do two sentences come from the same article?

We randomly sampled sentences from across Wikipedia. Some sentences came from the same articles, while others do not.

Sentences from the Same Article

These two sentences are from the same article. There were housing units at an average density of per square mile. It is also home to the State Reformatory, located in Granite.

So are these: The Monument of the Judiciary Citadel of Salerno is near the Colle Bellara. The La Carnale Castle got its name from a medieval battle against the Arabs and is part of a sport complex with a pool, tennis courts, and hockey.

As are these: The idea of Haar measure is to take a sort of limit of as it becomes smaller to make it additive on all pairs of disjoint compact sets, though it first has to be normalized so that the limit is not just infinity. When left and right Haar measures differ, the right measure is usually preferred as a prior distribution.

Sentences from Different Articles

These two sentences are from different articles: The Open women's doubles champion is from France. The average household size was and the average family size was.

As are these: The initial goal of the WordNet project was to build a lexical database that would be consistent with theories of human semantic memory developed in the late sixties. Males had a median income versus for females.

These are also different: Meanwhile, Western foods which are rich in fat, salt, sugar, and refined starches are also imported into countries. According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of, of which is land and is water.

Disclaimer

Please note that we attempted to remove any data sampled that includes controversial words or hate speech. However, such language is present in Wikipedia, so some such material may be present in this dataset. Due to the size of this dataset, it was not possible to have a human being audit each sentence.

Keywords: Wikipedia, sentences, articles, Haar measure, WordNet, semantic memory, household size, median income, Western foods, Census Bureau.