Mice-Protein-Expression Tags: Context

Expression levels of seventy-seven proteins measured in the cerebral cortex of eight classes of control and Down syndrome mice exposed to context fear conditioning, a task used to assess associative learning.

The data set consists of the expression levels of seventy-seven proteins or protein modifications that produced detectable signals in the nuclear fraction of cortex. There are thirty-eight control mice and thirty-four trisomic mice, for a total of seventy-two mice. In the experiments, fifteen measurements were registered of each protein per sample/mouse. Therefore, for control mice, there are fifteen measurements per protein, and for trisomic mice, there are fifteen measurements per protein. The dataset contains a total of one thousand eighty measurements per protein. Each measurement can be considered as an independent sample/mouse.

The eight classes of mice are described based on features such as genotype, behavior, and treatment. According to genotype, mice can be control or trisomic. According to behavior, some mice have been stimulated to learn and others have not, and in order to assess the effect of the drug memantine in recovering the ability to learn in trisomic mice, some mice have been injected with the drug and others have not.

Classes: control mice stimulated to learn and injected with saline, control mice stimulated to learn and injected with memantine, control mice not stimulated to learn and injected with saline, control mice not stimulated to learn and injected with memantine, trisomy mice stimulated to learn and injected with saline, trisomy mice stimulated to learn and injected with memantine, trisomy mice not stimulated to learn and injected with saline, and trisomy mice not stimulated to learn and injected with memantine.

Attribute Information: Mouse ID, values of expression levels of seventy-seven proteins, genotype, treatment type, behavior, and class.

The aim is to identify subsets of proteins that are discriminant between the classes.

Keywords: protein expression, Down syndrome, context fear conditioning, associative learning, genotype, behavior, treatment.