NAME: Nineteen Ninety Three New Car Data

TYPE: Sample
SIZE: Observations, Variables

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:
Specifications are given for ninety-three new car models for the nineteen ninety-three year. Several measures are given to evaluate price, miles per gallon ratings, engine size, body size, and features.

SOURCES:
Consumer Reports: The Nineteen Ninety Three Cars - Annual Auto Issue, Yonkers, NY: Consumers Union.
PACE New Car & Truck Nineteen Ninety Three Buying Guide, Milwaukee, WI: Pace Publications Inc.

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:
Line one columns one through fourteen describe the manufacturer. 
Columns fifteen through twenty-nine describe the model.
Columns thirty through thirty-six describe the type, which can be small, sporty, compact, midsize, or large, as defined in the Consumer Reports article.
Columns thirty-eight through forty-one describe the minimum price in thousands of dollars, which is the price for the basic version of this model.
Columns forty-three through forty-six describe the mid-range price in thousands of dollars, which is the average of the minimum and maximum prices.
Columns forty-eight through fifty-one describe the maximum price in thousands of dollars, which is the price for a premium version.
Columns fifty-three through fifty-four describe the city miles per gallon by Environmental Protection Agency rating.
Columns fifty-six through fifty-seven describe the highway miles per gallon.
Column fifty-nine describes whether air bags are standard, where zero means none, one means driver only, and two means driver and passenger.
Column sixty-one describes the drive train type, where zero means rear wheel drive, one means front wheel drive, and two means all-wheel drive.
Column sixty-three describes the number of cylinders.
Columns sixty-five through sixty-seven describe the engine size in liters.
Columns sixty-nine through seventy-one describe the horsepower, which is the maximum.
Columns seventy-three through seventy-six describe the revolutions per minute at maximum horsepower.

Line two columns one through four describe the engine revolutions per mile in the highest gear.
Column six describes whether manual transmission is available, where zero means no and one means yes.
Columns eight through eleven describe the fuel tank capacity in gallons.
Column thirteen describes the passenger capacity in persons.
Columns fifteen through seventeen describe the length in inches.
Columns nineteen through twenty-one describe the wheelbase in inches.
Columns twenty-three through twenty-four describe the width in inches.
Columns twenty-six through twenty-seven describe the U-turn space in feet.
Columns twenty-nine through thirty-two describe the rear seat room in inches.
Columns thirty-four through thirty-five describe the luggage capacity in cubic feet.
Columns thirty-seven through forty describe the weight in pounds.
Column forty-two describes whether the car is domestic, where zero means non-United States manufacturer and one means United States manufacturer.

Values are aligned and delimited by blanks. 
Missing values are denoted with asterisks. 
There are two data lines for each case.

SPECIAL NOTES:
The only missing values are for the number of cylinders in the rotary engine Mazda RX-seven, rear seat room for the two-seaters, and luggage capacity for the vans and two-seaters.
Weight is taken from the Consumer Reports data and includes a full fuel tank, automatic transmission if available, and air conditioning.

STORY BEHIND THE DATA:
Cars were selected at random from among nineteen ninety-three passenger car models that were listed in both the Consumer Reports issue and the PACE Buying Guide.
Pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles were eliminated due to incomplete information in the Consumer Reports source.
Duplicate models were listed at most once.
A similar dataset for nineteen eighty-nine model cars appeared as one of the sample datasets shipped with the Student Edition of Execustat.

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES:
This is a multi-purpose dataset that can be used at many points in an introductory course.
It includes many good numeric variables and several options for dividing the cars up into groups.
Students tend to be familiar with most of the variables and specific car models.
They can anticipate and pose explanations for many of the relationships to be found in the data, although some surprises may be encountered.

KEYWORDS: car data, fuel efficiency, vehicle characteristics, statistical analysis, machine learning