CNN Stock Pred NASDAQ Tags

This dataset covers features from various categories of technical indicators, futures contracts, price of commodities, important indices of markets around the world, price of major companies in the US market, and treasury bill rates. The dataset only contains information from the NASDAQ.

Features include Date, Close, Volume, Momentum, Rate of Change, Exponential Moving Average, Treasury Bill Rates, Oil, Gold, and prices of major companies such as Apple, Amazon, General Electric, Johnson and Johnson, JPMorgan Chase, Microsoft, Wells Fargo, and ExxonMobil. Additionally, it includes indices such as the French CAC, German DAX, Hong Kong Hang Seng, Japanese Nikkei, Korean KOSPI, NASDAQ, New York Stock Exchange, Russell, and S&P. The dataset also includes currency exchange rates and commodity prices.

HTRU2 Dataset Information

The HTRU2 dataset describes a sample of pulsar candidates collected during the High Time Resolution Universe Survey. Pulsars are a rare type of Neutron star that produce radio emission detectable on Earth. They are of considerable scientific interest as probes of space-time, the inter-stellar medium, and states of matter. As pulsars rotate, their emission beam sweeps across the sky, and when this crosses our line of sight, it produces a detectable pattern of broadband radio emission. As pulsars rotate rapidly, this pattern repeats periodically. Thus, pulsar search involves looking for periodic radio signals with large radio telescopes.

Each pulsar produces a slightly different emission pattern, which varies slightly with each rotation. Thus, a potential signal detection known as a candidate is averaged over many rotations of the pulsar, as determined by the length of an observation. In the absence of additional information, each candidate could potentially describe a real pulsar. However, in practice, almost all detections are caused by radio frequency interference and noise, making legitimate signals hard to find.

Machine learning tools are now being used to automatically label pulsar candidates to facilitate rapid analysis. Classification systems in particular are being widely adopted, which treat the candidate data sets as binary classification problems. Here, the legitimate pulsar examples are a minority positive class, and spurious examples are the majority negative class.

The dataset contains no missing values and includes sixteen thousand two hundred fifty-nine spurious examples caused by radio frequency interference and noise, and one thousand six hundred thirty-nine real pulsar examples. These examples have all been checked by human annotators. The data is presented in two formats: CSV and ARFF.

Each candidate is described by eight continuous variables and a single class variable. The first four variables are simple statistics obtained from the integrated pulse profile, which is an array of continuous variables that describe a longitude-resolved version of the signal that has been averaged in both time and frequency. The remaining four variables are similarly obtained from the DM-SNR curve.

Keywords: stock market prediction, technical indicators, pulsar candidates, radio frequency interference, machine learning, classification systems.