QSAR-TID-17033 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Tyrosine-Protein Kinase SRC. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains 270 rows and 1026 features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50. The features are FCFP6 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints.

The Tyrosine-Protein Kinase SRC is a single protein preferred name, also known as p60-Src, pp60c-src, Proto-oncogene c-Src, and Proto-oncogene Tyrosine-Protein Kinase Src. It is an enzyme/kinase/protein kinase group/tyrosine protein kinase Src family.

The protein target classification is 1. Enzyme/Kinase/Protein Kinase/TK protein kinase group/Tyrosine protein kinase Src family. The description relationship accession is Proto-oncogene Tyrosine-Protein Kinase Src SINGLE PROTEIN.

The protein is expressed in the nucleus, cytoplasm, mitochondrion, mitochondrial inner membrane, endosome, cytosol, cytoskeleton, plasma membrane, focal adhesion, endosome membrane, and membrane. It is involved in cell junction, extrinsic component of cytoplasmic side of plasma membrane, protein-containing complex, perinuclear region of cytoplasm, and anchoring junction.

The protein has functions such as nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein tyrosine kinase activity, non-membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity, signaling receptor binding, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, protein phosphatase binding, and heme binding.

The protein is involved in immune system process, protein phosphorylation, cell cycle, cell adhesion, epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway, phosphorylation, cell differentiation, osteoclast development, innate immune response, bone resorption, progesterone receptor signaling pathway, regulation of cell cycle, negative regulation of extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway, and negative regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.

Keywords: Tyrosine-Protein Kinase SRC, QSAR, Molecular Fingerprints, Protein Kinase, Cell Signaling, Immune System, Cell Cycle, Cell Adhesion.