QSAR-TID-101338 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 101338. The dataset has seventy-nine rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 101338. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. The dataset has seventy-nine rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50.

The drug target TID: 101338 is also known as PITSLRE serine/threonine-protein kinase CDC2L1. It is a single protein and has several synonyms, including CDC2L1, CDK11, CDK11B, Cell division cycle two-like protein kinase one, and Cell division protein kinase eleven B. The target is classified as an enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/CMGC protein kinase group/CMGC protein kinase CDK family/CMGC protein kinase PITSLRE subfamily.

The target is involved in several biological processes, including mitotic cell cycle, regulation of cell growth, regulation of DNA-templated transcription, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, cell cycle, regulation of mitotic cell cycle, phosphorylation, regulation of apoptotic process, regulation of RNA splicing, regulation of centrosome cycle, and regulation of mRNA processing. It is also involved in several cellular components, including cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex, nucleus, and cytoplasm.

Keywords: QSAR, PITSLRE serine/threonine-protein kinase CDC2L1, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, ChEMBL, mitotic cell cycle, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process.