World of Warcraft Auction House Data

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning

What is World of Warcraft?

World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game released by Blizzard Entertainment. It is the fourth game set in the Warcraft fantasy universe. The game takes place within the Warcraft world of Azeroth, approximately four years after the events at the conclusion of Blizzard's previous Warcraft release.

The game was announced and was released for the anniversary of the Warcraft franchise. Since its launch, World of Warcraft has had several major expansion packs produced for it. It was the world's most popular massively multiplayer online role-playing game by player count. The game had a total of registered accounts, making it one of the highest-grossing video game franchises of all time.

Why is it Worth Investigating?

The game World of Warcraft has already been a valuable resource for scientific work. From social studies to finance, the world created by Blizzard has provided much information about how players behave with their created characters, modeling how they act in real life. This data exploration will focus on auction house prices driven by demand over a period of time for raid supplies.

What do these Strange Words Mean?

World of Warcraft, like any other game, has specific terminology for items that are present in the world. Here is a summary of the specific items and words that will be used while researching this data exploration.

Player versus Environment refers to gameplay that focuses on fighting computer-generated enemies. Player versus Player refers to gameplay that focuses on fighting other players. A party is a group of two to five players, created for participating in Player versus Environment or Player versus Player scenarios. A raid group is a group of six to forty players divided into groups of five, created for participating in Player versus Environment or Player versus Player scenarios. A raid is an instanced dungeon, with several bosses that prove a challenge for a raid group.

A flask is a one-hour character statistics buff that persists through death. A potion is a short boost to statistics that increases damage, survivability, and so on. Food is a long character statistics buff that disappears on death. A feast is a table that provides food buffs but can be used by multiple people in a group. Money is the amount of currency you have, divided into gold, silver, and copper.

An auction house is a place where people sell their goods in-game.

Keywords: World of Warcraft, Auction House, Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game, Player Behavior, Raid Supplies, Demand Driven Prices.