QSAR-TID-12000 Tags: Machine Learning, MTL QSAR, study 3 

Dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID 12000, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program.

Features include molecule ChEMBL ID and multiple FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bits.

This dataset was part of the MetaQSAR project in September two thousand fifteen.

The protein target classification is Coagulation Factor Seven Single Protein. It is also known as Coagulation Factor Seven Synonyms. The organism is Homo sapiens and species group is no protein target classification.

The description relationship accession is Coagulation Factor Seven Single Protein. The preferred name is Coagulation Factor Seven. 

There are multiple relationships with other targets including Coagulation Factor Seven tissue factor protein complex, Coagulation Factor Seven and X selectivity group, Thrombin and Coagulation Factor Seven selectivity group.

The parent molecules include PCI two seven four eight three small molecule Coagulation Factor Seven inhibitor, EPTACOG ALFA unknown Coagulation Factor Seven positive modulator, EPTACOG ALFA activated protein Coagulation Factor Seven positive modulator, EPTACOG ALFA pegol activated protein Coagulation Factor Seven positive modulator.

There are multiple go components including extracellular region, extracellular space, endoplasmic reticulum lumen, Golgi lumen, plasma membrane, vesicle, protein containing complex, collagen containing extracellular matrix, serine type peptidase complex, serine type endopeptidase complex.

There are multiple go functions including endopeptidase activity, serine type endopeptidase activity, signaling receptor binding, calcium ion binding, protein binding, peptidase activity, serine type peptidase activity, hydrolase activity.

There are multiple go processes including response to hypoxia, activation of blood coagulation via clotting cascade, positive regulation of leukocyte chemotaxis, proteolysis, blood coagulation, blood coagulation intrinsic pathway, blood coagulation extrinsic pathway, hemostasis, circadian rhythm, response to wounding, response to hormone, response to carbon dioxide, positive regulation of platelet derived growth factor receptor signaling pathway, response to organic cyclic compound, protein processing, positive regulation of blood coagulation, positive regulation of cell migration, animal organ regeneration, zymogen activation, response to nutrient levels, response to estradiol, response to vitamin K, response to genistein, response to estrogen, positive regulation of positive chemotaxis, positive regulation of protein kinase B signaling, response to growth hormone, response to cholesterol, blood coagulation fibrin clot formation, response to thyroid hormone, response to thyroxine, response to thyroid stimulating hormone, response to two three seven eight tetrachlorodibenzo dioxine, response to astaxanthin, response to thyrotropin releasing hormone.

Keywords: Coagulation Factor Seven, QSAR, machine learning, MTL QSAR, MetaQSAR, protein target classification, molecular fingerprints, smiles strings.