This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, MTP Two, Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two.

The Carbolenes study is focused on molecular descriptors influencing melting point and their role in classification of solid drugs. The MTP Two study is centered around general melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks.

The Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two studies explore neighborhood behavior, a useful concept for validation of molecular diversity descriptors.

Other studies include Benzo Thirty-Two, which examines syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six-alkoxyimidazo pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor. The Phenethyl One study delves into quantitative structure-activity relationships, Hansch analysis, and related approaches.

The PAH study investigates weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors, part two, theory development, and applications on modeling physiochemical properties of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. The PDGF-R study develops linear, ensemble, and nonlinear models for the prediction and interpretation of the biological activity of a set of PDGF-R inhibitors.

Keywords: drug design, molecular descriptors, melting point, artificial neural networks, quantitative structure-activity relationships, benzodiazepine receptor, polyaromatic hydrocarbons, PDGF-R inhibitors.