COVID-19 Stats and Mobility Trends

Tags: COVID-19 Stats Trends Context

This dataset seeks to provide insights into what has changed due to policies aimed at combating COVID-19 and evaluate the changes in community activities and their relation to reduced confirmed cases of COVID-19. The reports chart movement trends, compared to an expected baseline, over time by geography, across 133 countries, as well as some other statistics about the country that might help explain the evolution of the disease.

Content

Grocery and Pharmacy: Mobility trends for places like grocery markets, food warehouses, farmers' markets, specialty food shops, drug stores, and pharmacies.

Parks: Mobility trends for places like national parks, public beaches, marinas, dog parks, plazas, and public gardens.

Residential: Mobility trends for places of residence.

Retail and Recreation: Mobility trends for places like restaurants, cafes, shopping centers, theme parks, museums, libraries, and movie theaters.

Transit Stations: Mobility trends for places like public transport hubs such as subway, bus, and train stations.

Workplaces: Mobility trends for places of work.

Total Cases: Total number of people infected with the SARS-CoV-2.

Fatalities: Total number of deaths caused by COVID-19.

Government Response Stringency Index: An additive score of nine indicators of government response to COVID-19, including school closures, workplace closures, cancellation of public events, public information campaigns, stay at home policies, restrictions on internal movement, international travel controls, testing policy, and contact tracing.

COVID-19 Testing: Total number of tests performed.

Total Vaccinations: Total number of shots given.

Total People Vaccinated: Total number of people given a shot.

Total People Fully Vaccinated: Total number of people fully vaccinated, which might require two shots of some vaccines.

Population: Total number of inhabitants.

Population Density per Square Kilometer: Number of human inhabitants per square kilometer.

Health System Index: Overall performance of the health system.

Human Development Index: A summary index based on life expectancy at birth, expected years of schooling for children and mean years of schooling for adults, and Gross National Income per capita.

Gross Domestic Product per Capita: Gross Domestic Product per capita based on Purchasing Power Parity, taking into account the relative cost of local goods, services, and inflation rates of the country, rather than using international market exchange rates, which may distort the real differences in per capita income.

Elderly Population Percentage: Percentage of the population above the age of sixty-five years old.

References

Bing COVID-19 data
COVID-19 Community Mobility Report
COVID-19: Government Response Stringency Index
Coronavirus COVID-19 Testing
Coronavirus COVID-19 Vaccination
List of countries and dependencies by population
List of countries and dependencies by population density
List of countries by Human Development Index
Measuring Overall Health System Performance
List of countries by Gross Domestic Product per capita
List of countries by age structure

Keywords: COVID-19, mobility trends, government response, testing, vaccination, population, health system, human development, GDP.