QSAR-TID-12076 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M2, and it has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class feature. The features represent FCFP Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M2. The features represent FCFP Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

The Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M2 is a single protein, also known as Chrm2 or Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M2, and is a membrane receptor that belongs to the family A G protein-coupled receptor. It is involved in various biological processes, including regulation of smooth muscle contraction, signal transduction, and chemical synaptic transmission.

The receptor is primarily found in the plasma membrane, membrane, dendrite, asymmetric synapse, symmetric synapse, presynaptic membrane, neuronal cell body, axon terminus, synapse, postsynaptic membrane, presynapse, glutamatergic synapse, and cholinergic synapse.

The receptor has various functions, including G protein-coupled receptor activity, G protein-coupled serotonin receptor activity, and G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor activity. It is also involved in various biological processes, including regulation of heart contraction, response to virus, and presynaptic modulation of chemical synaptic transmission.

Keywords: Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptor M2, QSAR data, FCFP Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, G protein-coupled receptor activity, signal transduction, chemical synaptic transmission.