QSAR-TID-64 Dataset 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: sixty-four, and it has three hundred fifty-eight rows and one thousand twenty-six features including IDs and class feature: MOLECULE CHEMBL ID and MEDIAN PX C fifty.

The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features: MOLECULE CHEMBL ID, FCFP Six One Thousand Twenty-Four Bit Molecular Fingerprints 

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project.

This dataset contains information about the Vitamin D receptor, also known as Nuclear receptor subfamily one group I member one, VDR, and Vitamin D three receptor. It is a single protein and its preferred name is Vitamin D receptor. It belongs to the species group of Homo sapiens and its classification is one, Transcription factor/Nuclear receptor/Nuclear hormone receptor subfamily one/Nuclear hormone receptor subfamily one group I/Nuclear hormone receptor subfamily one group I member one.

The Vitamin D receptor is targeted by various small molecules, such as Calcifediol, Ergocalciferol, Paricalcitol, and Calcitriol, which act as Vitamin D receptor agonists. These small molecules have different mechanisms of action and have been approved for different phases.

The Vitamin D receptor is involved in various biological processes, such as cell morphogenesis, skeletal system development, regulation of DNA-templated transcription, calcium ion transport, intracellular calcium ion homeostasis, lactation, negative regulation of cell population proliferation, animal organ morphogenesis, positive regulation of gene expression, negative regulation of keratinocyte proliferation, positive regulation of bone mineralization, phosphate ion transmembrane transport, bile acid signaling pathway, mRNA transcription by RNA polymerase two, positive regulation of keratinocyte differentiation, negative regulation of DNA-templated transcription, positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase two, decidualization, intestinal absorption, apoptotic process involved in mammary gland involution, and mammary gland branching involved in pregnancy.

Keywords: QSAR, Vitamin D receptor, Nuclear receptor, Transcription factor, Hormone receptor, Calcium ion transport, Gene expression, Cell morphogenesis, Skeletal system development.