Adult Census Income 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

This data was extracted from the Census Bureau database. A set of reasonably clean records was extracted using the following conditions: the individual must be at least sixteen years old, have an adjusted gross income, a final weight, and have worked at least one hour per week.

The prediction task is to determine whether a person makes more than fifty thousand dollars per year.

Description of Final Weight 
The weights on the Current Population Survey files are controlled to independent estimates of the civilian non-institutional population of the United States. These are prepared monthly for us by the Population Division at the Census Bureau. We use three sets of controls. These are: a single cell estimate of the population sixteen plus for each state; controls for Hispanic origin by age and sex; and controls by race, age, and sex. We use all three sets of controls in our weighting program and "rake" through them multiple times so that by the end we come back to all the controls we used. The term estimate refers to population totals derived from the Current Population Survey by creating weighted tallies of any specified socioeconomic characteristics of the population. People with similar demographic characteristics should have similar weights. However, there is one important caveat to remember about this statement. That is that since the Current Population Survey sample is actually a collection of fifty-one state samples, each with its own probability of selection, the statement only applies within state.

Relevant Papers 
Scaling up the accuracy of naive-bayes classifiers: a decision-tree hybrid. This paper explores ways to increase the accuracy of naive-bayes classifiers.

Features: Age, Work Class, Education, Marital Status, Occupation, Relationship, Race, Sex, Capital Gain, Capital Loss, Hours Per Week, Native Country, Income

Keywords: census, income, machine learning, computer systems, population survey, demographics, socioeconomic characteristics