The QSAR-TID-102826 dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Cathepsin K, and it has multiple rows and numerous features including IDs and class feature.

The features represent Fingerprint molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was published in September 2015.

The dataset contains information about the enzyme Cathepsin K, also known as Cathepsin K Ctsk, which belongs to the species Mus musculus. It is classified as an enzyme, protease, cysteine protease, and cysteine protease CA clan, and cysteine protease C1A family.

The expression of this enzyme is associated with various cellular components, including the extracellular region, extracellular space, nucleoplasm, lysosome, plasma membrane, external side of plasma membrane, membrane, apical plasma membrane, and intracellular membrane-bound organelle.

This enzyme is involved in several biological processes, including fibronectin binding, collagen binding, peptidase activity, cysteine-type endopeptidase activity, cysteine-type peptidase activity, hydrolase activity, proteoglycan binding, intramembranous ossification, proteolysis, thyroid hormone generation, apoptotic process, immune response, positive regulation of peptidase activity, response to organic cyclic compound, collagen catabolic process, response to insulin, cellular response to zinc ion starvation, bone resorption, response to ethanol, proteolysis involved in protein catabolic process, negative regulation of cartilage development, cellular response to tumor necrosis factor, and cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus.

The dataset also includes information about the enzyme's involvement in various pathways, including collagen degradation, degradation of the extracellular matrix, activation of matrix metalloproteinases, trafficking and processing of endosomal TLR, MHC class II antigen presentation, and RUNX1 regulates transcription of genes involved in differentiation of keratinocytes.

Keywords: QSAR, Cathepsin K, MetaQSAR, enzymatic activity, protein-ligand interactions, molecular fingerprints.