Vertebra Column Dataset

Tags: mf less than, study, study, study, study, study, study

Please cite:

Dataset Title: Vertebra Column - Three Classes

Abstract: This dataset contains values for six biomechanical features used to classify orthopedic patients into three classes (normal, disk hernia, or spondylolisthesis) or two classes (normal or abnormal).

Source: Department of Teleinformatics Engineering, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil and Hospital Monte Klinikum, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.

Data Set Information: This biomedical dataset was built during a medical residence period in the Group of Applied Research in Orthopedics of the Centre Médico-Chirurgical de Réadaptation des Massues, Lyon, France. The data have been organized into two different but related classification tasks. The first task involves classifying patients into one of three categories: Normal, Disk Hernia, or Spondylolisthesis. For the second task, the categories Disk Hernia and Spondylolisthesis were merged into a single category labeled as 'abnormal'. Thus, the second task consists of classifying patients as belonging to one of two categories: Normal or Abnormal. Files are also provided for use within the WEKA environment.

Attribute Information: Each patient in the dataset is represented by six biomechanical attributes derived from the shape and orientation of the pelvis and lumbar spine. These attributes are, in order: pelvic incidence, pelvic tilt, lumbar lordosis angle, sacral slope, pelvic radius, and grade of spondylolisthesis. The following convention is used for the class labels: DH (Disk Hernia), Spondylolisthesis (SL), Normal (NO), and Abnormal (AB).

Relevant Papers: Several papers have been published using this dataset, focusing on the analysis of sagittal balance of the spine and pelvis, application of ensembles of classifiers to diagnose pathologies of the vertebral column, and diagnostic of pathology on the vertebral column with embedded reject option. These studies have appeared in journals such as the Journal of Spinal Disorders & Techniques and IEEE Latin America Transactions, as well as in conference proceedings.

Features: The dataset includes six biomechanical features and a class label.

Keywords: vertebral column, orthopedic patients, biomechanical features, classification, spinal disorders, machine learning, medical diagnosis