The Tourism Competition Monthly dataset is a collection of time series data used for evaluating the performance of various forecasting methods. The dataset includes three hundred sixty-six monthly series, four hundred twenty-seven quarterly series, and five hundred eighteen yearly series. These series were supplied by both tourism bodies, such as Tourism Australia, the Hong Kong Tourism Board, and Tourism New Zealand, and various academics who had used them in previous tourism forecasting studies.

A subset of these series was used for evaluating the forecasting performances of methods that use explanatory variables. There were ninety-three quarterly series and one hundred twenty-nine yearly series for which explanatory variables were available. With the exception of thirty-four yearly series, which represented tourism numbers by purpose of travel at a national level, all of the other series represented total tourism numbers at a country level of aggregation.

For each series, the data was split into an estimation sample and a hold-out sample, which was hidden from all of the co-authors. For each monthly series, the hold-out sample consisted of the most recent observations; for quarterly data, it was the last observations; and for yearly data, it consisted of the final observations. Each method was implemented or trained on the estimation sample, and forecasts were produced for the whole of the hold-out sample for each series. The forecasts were then compared to the actual withheld observations.

The dataset has undergone several preprocessing steps. The first three columns were renamed to reflect the actual time step of the time series. The data was then melted, obtaining columns for time step and value. Any nan values were dropped, as they corresponded to time series that were shorter than the time series with maximum length. The date was obtained from the starting year, starting month, and time step. Finally, the id series column was defined as a category, the date was cast to a string, and the time step was cast to an integer.

The dataset can be split into training and test sets. The test set consists of the last observations for each series, where the number of observations depends on the frequency of the data. The dataset includes features such as id series, value, date, and time step.

Keywords: tourism forecasting, time series data, explanatory variables, estimation sample, hold-out sample.