Bodyfat 

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, OpenML-Reg19 

This dataset lists estimates of the percentage of body fat determined by underwater weighing and various body circumference measurements for men. 

Classroom use of this dataset involves illustrating multiple regression techniques. Accurate measurement of body fat is inconvenient and costly, and it is desirable to have easy methods of estimating body fat that are not inconvenient and costly.

A variety of popular health books suggest that readers assess their health, at least in part, by estimating their percentage of body fat. For instance, some books provide tables to estimate body fat from age and various skin fold measurements obtained by using a caliper. Other texts give predictive equations for body fat using body circumference measurements and or skin fold measurements.

Percentage of body fat for an individual can be estimated once body density has been determined. It is assumed that the body consists of two components – lean body tissue and fat tissue. By letting density of lean body tissue and density of fat tissue be known values, body density can be calculated, and then solved for the proportion of fat tissue. 

Using the estimates of density of lean body tissue and density of fat tissue, Siri's equation can be derived. Volume, and hence body density, can be accurately measured a variety of ways. One accurate method is the technique of underwater weighing, which computes body volume as the difference between body weight measured in air and weight measured during water submersion.

Other methods of determining body volume are also available. The variables listed below, from left to right, are density determined from underwater weighing, percent body fat from Siri's equation, age, weight, height, neck circumference, chest circumference, abdomen circumference, hip circumference, thigh circumference, knee circumference, ankle circumference, biceps circumference, forearm circumference, and wrist circumference.

These data are used to produce predictive equations for lean body weight. The data were generously supplied and permission was given to freely distribute the data and use for non commercial purposes.

References include Smart Exercise: Burning Fat, Getting Fit, Evaluation and Regulation of Body Build and Composition, Advances in Biological and Medical Physics, Nutrition, Weight Control, and Exercise, and Athletic Training and Physical Fitness: Physiological Principles of the Conditioning Process.

Features: density, age, weight, height, neck circumference, chest circumference, abdomen circumference, hip circumference, thigh circumference, knee circumference, ankle circumference, biceps circumference, forearm circumference, wrist circumference, class.

Keywords: body fat, underwater weighing, body circumference, multiple regression, health assessment, lean body tissue, fat tissue, body density.