This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets, which have eleven hundred forty-three features, were formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies. 

The original studies include Carbolenes, MTP two, Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, Yokoyama two, Benzo thirty-two, PHENETYL one, PAH, PDGFR, Phen, Topo two one, YPROP four one, QSABR one, QSABR two, QSARTOX, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBRALKS, QSFRDHLS, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, QSPRCMPX, and Selwood.

Carbolenes is based on the study by Silverman and Platt published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. MTP two is based on the study by Bergstrom, Norinder, and Luthman published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three. 

Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two are based on the study by Patterson, Cramer, Ferguson, Clark, and Weinberger published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

Benzo thirty-two is based on the study by Harrison, Barlin, Davies, Ireland, Matyus, and Wong published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. PHENETYL one is based on the book edited by Kubinyi published in nineteen ninety-three. 

PAH is based on the study by Todeschini, Gramatica, Marengo, and Provenzani published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five. PDGFR is based on the study by Guha and Jurs published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand four. 

Phen is based on the study by Cammarata published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two. Topo two one and YPROP four one are based on the study by Jun Feng et al published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three. 

QSABR one, QSABR two, QSARTOX, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBRALKS, QSFRDHLS, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, QSPRCMPX, and Selwood are based on various studies.

Keywords: drug design, Adriana Code software, molecular descriptors, quantitative structure-activity relationships, medicinal chemistry, chemical information, computational science.