Sunspot Daily Tags: Daily Total Sunspot Number from Eighteen Eighteen to Present

Time Range: January First Eighteen Eighteen to Last Elapsed Month (Provisional Values)

Data Description: The daily total sunspot number is derived by the formula: Sunspot Number equals Number of Spots plus Ten times Number of Groups counted over the entire solar disk. No daily data are provided before Eighteen Eighteen because daily observations become too sparse in earlier years. Therefore, only monthly means and yearly means are available for all years before Eighteen Eighteen. In the text and comma-separated values files, missing values are marked by Not a Number (valid sunspot numbers are always positive). The conventional point six Zurich scale factor is not used anymore, and the entire series is now defined at the scale of raw modern counts, instead of reducing it to the level of early counts.

Error Values: Those values correspond to the standard deviation of raw numbers provided by all stations. Before Nineteen Eighty-One, the errors are estimated with the help of an auto-regressive model based on the Poissonian distribution of actual sunspot numbers. From Nineteen Eighty-One onwards, the error value is the actual standard deviation of the sample of raw observations used to compute the daily value. The standard error of the daily sunspot number can be computed by: sigma divided by the square root of N, where sigma is the listed standard deviation and N is the number of observations for the day. Before Nineteen Eighty-One, the number of observations is set to one, as the sunspot number was then essentially the raw Wolf number from the Zurich Observatory.

Preprocessing: The data was preprocessed by keeping only the data with year less than or equal to the present year. A date column was created from the year, month, and day columns in the format year-month-day. The unnecessary columns were dropped, and missing values were replaced with Not a Number to evidence the missing data. The rows with dates before January Eighth Eighteen Eighteen were dropped, as they only contain missing data. A column was created with a value of zero, indicating that there is only one long time series. The data was ensured to have no missing dates and a daily frequency. A time step column was created with increasing values of time step for the time series. The columns were casted to the appropriate data types, and the id series was defined as a category.

Keywords: Sunspot Number, Solar Disk, Daily Observations, Standard Deviation, Auto-Regressive Model, Poissonian Distribution, Standard Error.