Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset

Tags: Context

The unprocessed dataset was acquired from the University of California, Irvine Machine Learning organization. This dataset is preprocessed by me, originally from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. The objective of the dataset is to accurately predict whether or not a patient has diabetes, based on multiple features included in the dataset. I have achieved an accuracy metric score with the Random Forest Classifier using this dataset. I have even developed a web service Diabetes Prediction System using that trained model. You can explore the Exploratory Data Analysis notebook to better understand the data.

Attributes

Normal Value Range
Glucose: Glucose level below one hundred forty is normal, glucose level between one hundred forty and two hundred is pre-diabetic, glucose level above two hundred is diabetic.
Blood Pressure: Blood pressure below sixty is below normal, blood pressure between sixty and eighty is normal, blood pressure between eighty and ninety is stage one hypertension, blood pressure between ninety and one hundred twenty is stage two hypertension, blood pressure above one hundred twenty is hypertensive crisis.
Skin Thickness: Skin thickness below ten is below normal, skin thickness between ten and thirty is normal, skin thickness above thirty is above normal.
Insulin: Insulin level below two hundred is normal, insulin level above two hundred is above normal.
Body Mass Index: Body mass index below eighteen point five is underweight, body mass index between eighteen point five and twenty-five is normal, body mass index between twenty-five and thirty is overweight, body mass index above thirty is obese.

Acknowledgements
The dataset is inspired by the original work.

Inspiration
Multiple models were trained on the original dataset but only the Random Forest Classifier was able to score an accuracy metric, but with this new preprocessed dataset, an accuracy metric score was achieved. Can you build a machine learning model that can accurately predict whether a patient has diabetes or not? And can you achieve an accuracy metric score even higher without overfitting the model?

Features
Pregnancies, Glucose, Blood Pressure, Skin Thickness, Insulin, Body Mass Index, Diabetes Pedigree Function, Age, Outcome

Keywords: Diabetes Prediction, Machine Learning, Random Forest Classifier, Data Preprocessing, Accuracy Metric Score.