QSAR-TID-10728 Dataset 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10728. It has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class feature: MOLECULE CHEMBL ID and MEDIAN PX C50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. 

Scraped Data:

The preferred name of this single protein is Beta-One Adrenergic Receptor. It has synonyms such as Adrb One, Adrb One R, Beta-One Adrenergic Receptor, Beta-One Adrenoceptor, and Beta-One Adrenoreceptor. It belongs to the species group of Rattus Norvegicus.

The protein target classification is one point membrane receptor slash family A G protein-coupled receptor slash small molecule receptor slash monoamine receptor slash adrenergic receptor.

Description Relationship Accession:

The Beta-One Adrenergic Receptor is a single protein with accession P one eight zero nine zero.

Go Component:

It is located in the endosome, early endosome, plasma membrane, membrane, Schaffer collateral minus CA one synapse, postsynapse, and neuronal dense core vesicle.

Go Function:

It has functions such as G protein-coupled receptor activity, adrenergic receptor activity, beta-one-adrenergic receptor activity, guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity, protein binding, PDZ domain binding, alpha-two-A adrenergic receptor binding, amine binding, protein heterodimerization activity, and G protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptor activity involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential.

Go Process:

It is involved in various biological processes, including positive regulation of heart rate by epinephrine-norepinephrine, positive regulation of the force of heart contraction by epinephrine-norepinephrine, diet induced thermogenesis, norepinephrine-epinephrine-mediated vasodilation involved in regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure, positive regulation of the force of heart contraction by norepinephrine, positive regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure, glycogen catabolic process, signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, Rho protein signal transduction, memory, response to cold, positive regulation of heart rate, heat generation, protein localization to organelle, negative regulation of urine volume, negative regulation of multicellular organism growth, fear response, positive regulation of apoptotic process, positive regulation of GTPase activity, regulation of circadian sleep-wake cycle, sleep, positive regulation of adenylate cyclase activity, positive regulation of heart contraction, negative regulation of smooth muscle contraction, brown fat cell differentiation, regulation of calcium ion transport, lipid homeostasis, inhibitory postsynaptic potential, regulation of cell growth involved in cardiac muscle cell development, adenylate cyclase-activating adrenergic receptor signaling pathway, regulation of cardiac muscle cell contraction, positive regulation of adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis, positive regulation of long-term synaptic potentiation, positive regulation of calcium ion import across plasma membrane, and positive regulation of cation channel activity.

Keywords: QSAR, Drug Target, Adrenergic Receptor, G Protein-Coupled Receptor, Signal Transduction, Heart Rate Regulation, Thermogenesis.