Lymph Dataset
Tags: study 1, study 41, study 7, study 88, uci

Source: Unknown

Please cite: This lymphography domain was obtained from the University Medical Centre, Institute of Oncology, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia. Thanks go to the providers for providing the data. Please include this citation if you plan to use this database.

Title: Lymphography Domain

This is one of three domains provided by the Oncology Institute that has repeatedly appeared in the machine learning literature. (See also breast cancer and primary tumor.)

The dataset contains 148 instances and 19 attributes including the class attribute. All attribute values in the database have been entered as numeric values corresponding to their index in the list of attribute values for that attribute domain.

Attribute information:
Class: normal find, metastases, malign lymph, fibrosis
Lymphatics: normal, arched, deformed, displaced
Block of affere: no, yes
Block of lymph c: no, yes
Block of lymph s: no, yes
Bypass: no, yes
Extravasates: no, yes
Regeneration of: no, yes
Early uptake in: no, yes
Lymph nodes diminished: 0-3
Lymph nodes enlarged: 1-4
Changes in lymph: bean, oval, round
Defect in node: no, lacunar, lacunar marginal, lacunar central
Changes in node: no, lacunar, lacunar margin, lacunar central
Changes in structure: no, grainy, drop like, coarse, diluted, reticular, stripped, faint
Special forms: no, chalices, vesicles
Dislocation of: no, yes
Exclusion of no: no, yes
Number of nodes in: 0-9, 10-19, 20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, 70 or more

There are no missing attribute values in this dataset.

Class Distribution:
Normal find: 2 instances
Metastases: 81 instances
Malign lymph: 61 instances
Fibrosis: 4 instances

The dataset has been relabeled to make attribute values more human-readable. For example, numeric values have been replaced with descriptive labels for attributes such as lymphatics, block of affere, and changes in structure.

Keywords: lymphography, oncology, machine learning, medical data, classification, lymph nodes, metastases