QSAR-TID-11575 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11575. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains 1490 rows and 1026 features, including IDs and class feature: MOLECULE_CHEMBL_ID and MEDIAN_PXC50.

The C-C chemokine receptor type 2 is a single protein preferred name, also known as C-C chemokine receptor type 2, C-C CKR-2, CC-CKR-2, CCR2, and CCR-2. It is a membrane receptor, family A G protein-coupled receptor, peptide receptor, and chemokine receptor.

The protein target classification is 1. Membrane receptor/Family A G protein-coupled receptor/Peptide receptor (family A GPCR)/Chemokine receptor/CC chemokine receptor.

The description relationship accession is C-C chemokine receptor type 2, SINGLE PROTEIN, P41597.

The organism is Homo sapiens, and the species group is No Protein Target Classification.

The protein target is classified as 1. Membrane receptor/Family A G protein-coupled receptor/Peptide receptor (family A GPCR)/Chemokine receptor/CC chemokine receptor.

The dataset contains information on the parent molecule ChEMBL ID, parent molecule name, parent molecule type, mechanism of action, max phase, and first approval.

The C-C chemokine receptor type 2 is involved in various biological processes, including blood vessel remodeling, dendritic cell chemotaxis, monocyte chemotaxis, regulation of T cell cytokine production, and positive regulation of T-helper 1 type immune response.

The receptor is also involved in negative regulation of type 2 immune response, intracellular calcium ion homeostasis, chemotaxis, inflammatory response, immune response, humoral immune response, cellular defense response, signal transduction, and G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway.

Keywords: C-C chemokine receptor type 2, QSAR data, molecular fingerprints, chemokine receptor, G protein-coupled receptor, immune response, inflammatory response.