This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software (www.molecular-networks.com/software/adriana-code). The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. 

The carbolenes dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. 

The mtp two dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The chang, cristalli, depreux, doherty, garrat two, garrat, heyl, krystek, lewis, penning, rosowsky, siddiqi, stevenson, strupcz, svensson, thompson, tsutumi, uejling, yokoyama one, yokoyama two datasets are taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The mtp dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model in two thousand five.

The benzo thirty-two dataset is taken from the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The phenetyl one dataset is taken from the book QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches edited by H Kubinyi published in nineteen ninety-three.

The pah dataset is taken from the study published in the Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems journal in nineteen ninety-five.

The pdgfr dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four.

The phen dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The topo two one and y prop four one datasets are taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The qsabr one and qsabr two datasets are taken from the study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-seven.

The qsartox dataset is taken from the study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-eight.

The qsbr rw one dataset is taken from the book Biodegradation of Dioxins and Furans published in nineteen ninety-eight.

The qsbr y two dataset is taken from the book Biodegradability Prediction published in nineteen ninety-eight.

The qsbr alks dataset is taken from the study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-eight.

The qsfr dhla dataset is taken from the study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-seven.

The qsfsr one and qsfsr two datasets are taken from the study published in the journal Protein Engineering in nineteen ninety-eight.

The qspr cmpx dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences in two thousand.

The selwood dataset is taken from the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Keywords: drug design, Adriana Code, molecular descriptors, QSAR, biodegradability, toxicity.