Audiology Dataset
Tags: study, study, study, uci

Source: UCI

Please cite: Protos: An Exemplar-Based Learning Apprentice. In the Proceedings of the International Workshop on Machine Learning, Irvine, CA: Morgan Kaufmann

Audiology Database

This database is a standardized version of the original audiology database. The non-standard set of attributes have been converted to a standard set of attributes according to specific rules. Each property that appears anywhere in the original data or test file has been represented as a separate attribute in this file. A property such as age greater than sixty is represented as a boolean attribute with values false and true. In most cases, a property of the form x(y) is represented as a discrete attribute x() whose possible values are the various y's; air() is an example. There are two exceptions: when only one value of y appears anywhere, for example static(normal), in this case, x y appears as a boolean attribute; and when one case can have two or more values of x, for example history. All possible values of history are treated as separate boolean attributes.

Since boolean attributes only appear as positive conditions, each boolean attribute is assumed to be false unless noted as true. The value of multi-value discrete attributes is taken as unknown ("?") unless a value is specified. The original case identifications have been added as a unique identifier attribute. In the original data file, one case has a repeated specification of o ar c(normal); another case has repeated specification of speech(normal) and conflicting values air(moderate) and air(mild). No other problems with the original data were noted.

The dataset includes various attributes related to audiology tests and patient history. These include air conduction results, bone conduction results, acoustic reflex thresholds, speech recognition scores, tympanometry results, and patient-reported symptoms. The class attribute represents different types of hearing disorders or conditions.

This standardized version of the audiology database aims to provide a more consistent and easily interpretable set of attributes for machine learning applications in the field of audiology. It allows for the analysis and classification of various hearing disorders based on a comprehensive set of audiological test results and patient history data.

Keywords: audiology, hearing disorders, machine learning, standardized database, audiological tests