QSAR-TID-11942 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 11942. The dataset has one thousand and two rows and one thousand and twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXC50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator, also known as PLAU, uPA, U-Plasminogen Activator, and Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator Chain B. This protein is a single protein and is classified as an enzyme, protease, serine protease, and serine protease PA clan, and serine protease S1A subfamily.

The protein target classification is one, enzyme, protease, serine protease, serine protease PA clan, and serine protease S1A subfamily. The description of the protein target is Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator, which is a single protein.

The dataset is related to several other datasets, including Thrombin and Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator, and Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator/surface receptor.

The protein is expressed in several components, including extracellular region, extracellular space, plasma membrane, focal adhesion, cell surface, specific granule membrane, extracellular exosome, tertiary granule membrane, serine protease inhibitor complex, and protein complex involved in cell-matrix adhesion.

The protein has several functions, including serine-type endopeptidase activity, protein binding, peptidase activity, serine-type peptidase activity, and hydrolase activity.

The protein is involved in several biological processes, including response to hypoxia, proteolysis, chemotaxis, signal transduction, blood coagulation, hemostasis, regulation of signaling receptor activity, regulation of plasminogen activation, negative regulation of plasminogen activation, smooth muscle cell migration, regulation of smooth muscle cell migration, regulation of cell adhesion, positive regulation of cell migration, plasminogen activation, regulation of cell adhesion mediated by integrin, urokinase plasminogen activator signaling pathway, regulation of cell population proliferation, fibrinolysis, regulation of fibrinolysis, negative regulation of fibrinolysis, and regulation of wound healing.

Keywords: Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator, QSAR, FCFP, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES, Pipeline Pilot, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, Enzyme, Protease, Serine Protease, Plasminogen Activation, Fibrinolysis, Wound Healing.