This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The Yokohoma Two dataset is part of these forty-one datasets. It was originally studied by researchers who published their findings in a journal.

Carbolenes is another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

MTP Two is yet another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

Several other datasets are also part of this collection, including Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two. These datasets were originally studied by researchers who published their findings in various journals.

MTP is another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model.

Benzo Thirty-Two is yet another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Phenetyle One is also part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in a book edited by H. Kubinyi.

PAH is another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems.

PDGF-R is yet another dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science.

Phen is also part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Topo Two One and Y Prop Four One are two more datasets that are part of this collection. They were studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science.

QSAR BR One, QSAR BR Two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW One, QSBR Y Two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR One, QSFSR Two, and QS Pr Cmpx are also part of this collection. They were studied by researchers who published their findings in various journals.

Selwood is the last dataset that is part of this collection. It was studied by researchers who published their findings in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Tags: Chemistry, Computer Systems

Keywords: drug design, chemistry, computer systems, datasets, molecules, outputs, studies, journals, medicinal chemistry, chemical information, computational science.