**Plasma Retinol**

Tags: Author, Source, Unknown, Date unknown, Please cite

Determinants of Plasma Retinol and Beta Carotene Levels

Observational studies have suggested that low dietary intake or low plasma concentrations of retinol, beta carotene, or other carotenoids might be associated with increased risk of developing certain types of cancer. However, relatively few studies have investigated the determinants of plasma concentrations of these micronutrients.

We designed a cross-sectional study to investigate the relationship between personal characteristics and dietary factors, and plasma concentrations of retinol, beta carotene, and other carotenoids. The study subjects consisted of patients who had an elective surgical procedure during a three-year period to biopsy or remove a lesion of the lung, colon, breast, skin, ovary, or uterus that was found to be non-cancerous.

The data displayed are for only two of the analytes. Plasma concentrations of the micronutrients varied widely from subject to subject. While plasma retinol levels varied by age and sex, the only dietary predictor was alcohol consumption. Plasma beta carotene levels were log-transformed prior to the analysis due to severe asymmetry of the residuals on the original scale. For log beta carotene, dietary intake, regular use of vitamins, and intake of fiber were associated with higher plasma concentrations, while Quetelet Index and cholesterol intake were associated with lower plasma levels, adjusting for the other factors. There was one extremely high leverage point in alcohol consumption that was deleted prior to the analysis.

Plasma concentrations of retinol and beta carotene were not correlated. We conclude that there is wide variability in plasma concentrations of these micronutrients in humans, and that much of this variability is associated with dietary habits and personal characteristics. A better understanding of the physiological relationship between some personal characteristics and plasma concentrations of these micronutrients will require further study.

Authorization: Contact authors

Reference: A related reference is available.

Description:
This data file contains observations on fourteen variables. This data set can be used to demonstrate multiple regression, transformations, categorical variables, outliers, pooled tests of significance, and model-building strategies.

Variable Names:
Age, Sex, Smoking Status, Quetelet, Vitamin Use, Calories, Fat, Fiber, Alcohol, Cholesterol, Dietary Beta Carotene, Dietary Retinol, Plasma Beta Carotene, Plasma Retinol

Keywords: plasma retinol, beta carotene, micronutrients, dietary intake, cancer, observational studies, cross-sectional study, personal characteristics, dietary factors.