Name: Forex EUR/GBP Minute Close

Tags: finance, forex, forex close, forex minute

Source: Dukascopy Historical Data Feed

Data Description
This is the historical price data of the Forex EUR/GBP from Dukascopy. One instance, or row, is one candlestick of one minute. The whole dataset has a data range from a specific start date to a specific end date and does not include weekends, since the Forex is not traded on weekends. The timezone of the feature Timestamp is Europe/Amsterdam.

The class attribute is the direction of the mean of the Close Bid and the Close Ask of the following minute, relative to the Close Bid and Close Ask mean of the current minute. This means the class attribute is True when the mean Close price is going up the following minute, and the class attribute is False when the mean Close price is going down or stays the same the following minute.

Attributes
The Timestamp attribute represents the time of the current data point in the Europe/Amsterdam timezone. The Bid Open attribute represents the bid price at the start of this time interval. The Bid High attribute represents the highest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Low attribute represents the lowest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Close attribute represents the bid price at the end of this time interval. The Bid Volume attribute represents the number of times the Bid Price changed within this time interval. The Ask Open attribute represents the ask price at the start of this time interval. The Ask High attribute represents the highest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Low attribute represents the lowest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Close attribute represents the ask price at the end of this time interval. The Ask Volume attribute represents the number of times the Ask Price changed within this time interval. The Class attribute represents whether the average price will go up during the next interval.

Keywords: Forex, EUR/GBP, historical price data, candlestick, timezone, class attribute, bid price, ask price.