COVID-19 Dataset with 100 World Countries
Tags: COVID-19 Algeria and World Dataset

A coronavirus dataset with countries constructed from different reliable sources, where each row represents a country, and the columns represent geographic, climate, healthcare, economic, and demographic factors that may contribute to accelerate or slow the spread of the COVID-19. The assumptions for the different factors are as follows: Geography, where some continents or areas may be more affected by the disease; Climate, where cold temperatures may promote the spread of the virus; Healthcare, where a lack of hospital beds or doctors may lead to more human losses; Economy, where weak economies have fewer means to fight the disease; and Demography, where older populations may be at higher risk of the disease. The last column represents the number of daily tests performed and the total number of cases and deaths reported each day.

Data Description
The dataset includes countries from different geographic regions, including Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America, and Oceania.

Statistical Description of the Data
The dataset is available in an encoded CSV form on GitHub. A Python Jupyter Notebook to read and visualize the data is available on nbviewer.

Data Update
The dataset is updated regularly with the latest numbers of COVID-19 cases, deaths, and tests.

Data Construction
The dataset is constructed from different reliable sources, where each row represents a country, and the columns represent geographic, climate, healthcare, economic, and demographic factors that may contribute to accelerate or slow the spread of the coronavirus. Note that we selected only the main factors for which we found data, and that other factors can be used. All data were retrieved from reliable sources, including Our World in Data website, and other sources for specific data such as continents, geographic coordinates, temperatures, and GDP per capita.

Citation
If you want to use the dataset, please cite the relevant paper, which provides more details about the data construction.

Contact
If you have any question or suggestion, please contact us at the provided email address.

Features:
Entity, Continent, Latitude, Longitude, Average Temperature per Year, Hospital Beds per Thousand People, Medical Doctors per Thousand People, GDP per Capita, Population, Median Age, Population Aged Sixty-Five and Over, Date, Daily Tests, Cases, Deaths

Keywords: COVID-19, coronavirus, dataset, geographic factors, climate factors, healthcare factors, economic factors, demographic factors, data analysis, data visualization.