The Friedman Datasets are eighty artificially generated datasets originating from stochastic gradient boosting. 

These datasets' names are coded as "Friedman Colinearity Degree Sample Number Feature Number". 

Friedman is one of the most widely used functions for data generation. Friedman functions encompass both linear and nonlinear relationships between input and output, and a normalized noise is added to the output.

The Friedman function is as follows: 
the output equals ten times the sine of pi times x1 times x2 plus twenty times the square of x3 minus point five, plus ten times X four plus five times X five plus epsilon.

In the original Friedman function, there are five features for input. To measure the effects of unrelated features, additional features are added to the datasets. 

These added features are independent from the output. However, to measure an algorithm's robustness to collinearity, the datasets are generated with five different collinearity degrees. 

Collinearity degree refers to the number of features dependent on other features. 

The generated Friedman dataset's parameters and values are given below:

The number of features includes five, ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred, where only the first five features are related to the output, while the rest are completely random. 

The number of samples includes one hundred, two hundred fifty, five hundred, and one thousand. 

Collinearity degrees include zero, one, two, three, and four. 

For the datasets with a collinearity degree of four, the numbers of features are generated as ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred. 

The other datasets have five, ten, twenty-five, and fifty features. 

As a result, eighty artificial datasets are generated by combining four different feature numbers, four different sample numbers, and five different collinearity degrees. 

The last attribute in each file is the target. 

Keywords: artificial datasets, stochastic gradient boosting, Friedman function, collinearity degree, unrelated features, algorithm robustness.