The Friedman Datasets 

These eighty artificially generated datasets originate from stochastic gradient boosting. 

The dataset names are coded as "Friedman colinearity degree sample number feature number". 

Friedman is one of the most widely used functions for data generation. 

Friedman functions include both linear and nonlinear relations between input and output, and a normalized noise is added to the output. 

The Friedman function is as follows: 
output equals ten times sine of pi times input one times input two plus twenty times the square of input three minus point five, plus ten times input four plus five times input five plus error.

In the original Friedman function, there are five features for input. 

To measure the effects of nonrelated features, additional features are added to the datasets. 

These added features are independent from the output. 

However, to measure the algorithm's robustness to colinearity, the datasets are generated with five different colinearity degrees. 

Colinearity degree is the number of features depending on other features. 

The generated Friedman dataset's parameters and values are given below: 

The number of features varies, including five, ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred. 

Only the first five features are related to the output; the rest are completely random. 

The number of samples also varies, including one hundred, two hundred and fifty, five hundred, and one thousand. 

Colinearity degrees range from zero to four. 

For the datasets with a colinearity degree of four, the number of features is generated as ten, twenty-five, fifty, and one hundred. 

The other datasets have five, ten, twenty-five, and fifty features. 

As a result, eighty artificial datasets are generated by varying feature numbers, sample numbers, and colinearity degrees. 

The last attribute in each file is the target.

Keywords: artificial datasets, data generation, Friedman function, colinearity degree, stochastic gradient boosting, linear relations, nonlinear relations, normalized noise.