FPS in Video Games

This dataset contains Frames Per Second (FPS) measurement of video games executed on computers. Each row of the dataset describes the outcome of FPS measurement for a video game executed on a computer. A computer is characterized by the Central Processing Unit (CPU) and the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). For both, the name is resolved to technical specifications that describe the factory state of the respective component. The game is characterized by the name, the displayed resolution, and the quality setting that was adjusted during the measurement.

Source of Data

The measurements are gathered from the webpages User Benchmark and FPS Benchmark. The source of each measurement is indicated by the attribute dataset, which takes the value User Benchmark or FPS Benchmark. For User Benchmark, the FPS values are extracted from the published histograms. Hence, the FPS values are binned to bins with a width of ten starting at ten, and there are multiple measurements for the same computer and software configuration. The technical specifications are gathered from the webpage Tech Power Up. All FPS measurements and technical specifications were crawled in June.

Description of the Technical Features

CPU (Central Processing Unit)

The CPU features include the number of physical cores, the number of threads, the base clock in megahertz, the total size of level one cache in kilobytes, the total size of level two cache in kilobytes, the total size of level three cache in megabytes, the physical size of the die in square meters, the frequency in megahertz, the multiplier of the CPU, whether the multiplier is locked or unlocked, the used process size in nanometers, the number of symmetric multiprocessors, the thermal design power in watts, and the count of transistors in millions.

GPU (Graphics Processing Unit)

The GPU features include the bandwidth in megabytes per second, the base clock in megahertz, the boost clock in megahertz, the number of computing units, the physical size of the die in square meters, the number of execution units, the theoretical Float thirty-two performance in megaflops per second, the width of the memory bus in bits, the size of the memory in megabytes, the theoretical pixel rate in megapixels per second, the used process size in nanometers, the number of render output units, the number of shading units, the number of texture mapping units, the theoretical texture rate in kilotexels per second, the number of transistors in millions, the architecture code, the memory type, the bus interface, the version of OpenCL, the version of the shader model, the version of Vulkan, and the version of OpenGL.

Game

The game features include the name, the displayed resolution, and the quality setting.

Dataset Indicator and Target

The dataset indicator is an attribute that indicates the source of the measurement, and the target is the FPS value.

Keywords: Frames Per Second, Performance Prediction, Video Games, Central Processing Unit, Graphics Processing Unit, Computer Hardware, Technical Specifications.