QSAR-TID-277 Dataset:

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 277. It has multiple rows and features, including IDs and class feature.

The features represent molecular fingerprints which were generated from smiles strings. They were obtained using the pipeline pilot program.

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include molecule ChEMBL ID and multiple molecular fingerprint features.

Scraped Data:

Retinoid X receptor beta is a single protein preferred name. Its synonyms include nuclear receptor subfamily two group B member two, retinoic acid receptor RXR-beta, and RXRB. The organism is Homo sapiens, and it belongs to the species group.

Protein Target Classification: 
It is classified as a transcription factor/nuclear receptor/nuclear hormone receptor subfamily two/nuclear hormone receptor subfamily two group B/nuclear hormone receptor subfamily two group B member two.

Description:
Retinoic acid receptor RXR-beta is a single protein.

Relationship Accession:
Retinoic acid receptor RXR-beta has a relationship accession.

Expression Atlas:
It is associated with one expression atlas.

Go Component:
It is associated with multiple go components, including chromatin, nucleus, nucleoplasm, cytoplasm, and RNA polymerase II transcription regulator complex.

Go Function:
It is associated with multiple go functions, including RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding, DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific, and nuclear receptor activity.

Go Process:
It is associated with multiple go processes, including regulation of DNA-templated transcription, hormone-mediated signaling pathway, cell differentiation, positive regulation of bone mineralization, response to retinoic acid, mRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II, and steroid hormone mediated signaling pathway.

Wikipedia:
It is associated with one Wikipedia entry, Retinoid X receptor beta.

CanSAR-Target:
It is associated with one canSAR-target entry.

GuideToPHARMACOLOGY:
It is associated with one guide to pharmacology entry.

IntAct:
It is associated with one interact entry.

PharmGKB:
It is associated with one pharmgkb entry, retinoid X receptor, beta.

Pharos:
It is associated with one pharos entry.

Reactome:
It is associated with multiple reactome entries, including PPARA activates gene expression, nuclear receptor transcription pathway, signaling by retinoic acid, and NR1H2 & NR1H3 regulate gene expression linked to lipogenesis.

UniProt:
It is associated with multiple uniprot entries.

InterPro:
It is associated with multiple interpro entries, including retinoid-X receptor/HNF4, nuclear hormone receptor ligand-binding domain, zinc finger hormone receptor, and nuclear hormone receptor.

Pfam:
It is associated with multiple pfam entries, including hormone receptor and zf-C4.

PDBe:
It is associated with multiple pdb entries.

Keywords: QSAR, TID, Retinoid X receptor beta, Nuclear receptor, Hormone receptor, Transcription factor, Gene expression, Signaling pathway.