This directory contains six databases, a corresponding test set, and corresponding documentation. They were left at the University of California at Irvine during a visit in nineteen eighty-seven for the nineteen eighty-seven Machine Learning Workshop.

The documentation files are formatted to be read by a specific decision tree program. Although they are briefer than other documentation files found in this database repository, they should suffice to describe the database, including the source, number and names of attributes, including class names, and types of values that each attribute takes.

In general, these databases are quite similar and can be characterized as having many attributes, mostly numeric or Boolean valued attributes, and being related to thyroid disease domains. The records were provided by the Garavan Institute of Sydney, Australia. There are several missing attribute values, signified by a question mark. There is a small number of classes, which change with each database. 

Each data set has a certain number of instances, and there is a separate test set with its own number of instances. It seems that the test sets' instances are disjoint with respect to the corresponding data sets, although this has not been verified.

There is also an additional two data files, which have approximately the same data format and set of attributes as the other six databases, but their integrity is questionable. They differ in terms of their number of instances and lack of corresponding test files. 

Another file contains the latest version of an archive of thyroid diagnoses obtained from the Garavan Institute, consisting of records from nineteen eighty-four to early nineteen eighty-seven. A domain theory related to thyroid disease has also been added recently.

Features include various variables, such as age, sex, and other medical-related attributes.

Scraped data includes information about the dataset, including its origin and characteristics.

Keywords: thyroid disease, machine learning, datasets, Garavan Institute, Australia, decision trees.