WHO National Life Expectancy

Context
I am developing my data science skills in areas outside of my previous work. An interesting problem for me was to identify which factors influence life expectancy on a national level. There is an existing Kaggle dataset that explored this, but that information was corrupted. Part of the problem-solving process is to step back periodically and ask "does this make sense?" Without reasonable data, it is harder to notice mistakes in my analysis code (as opposed to unusual behavior due to the data itself). I wanted to make a similar dataset, but with reliable information. This is my first time exploring life expectancy, so I had to guess which features might be of interest when making the dataset. Some were included for comparison with the other Kaggle dataset. A number of potentially interesting features, like air pollution, were left off due to limited year or country coverage. Since the data was collected from more than one server, some features are present more than once, to explore the differences.

Content
A goal of the World Health Organization is to ensure that people are protected from health emergencies, and provided better health and well-being. They provide public data collected from many sources to identify and monitor factors that are important to reach this goal. This set was primarily made using Global Health Observatory and United Nations Educational Scientific and Culture Organization information. The set covers years for countries, in a single CSV file. Missing data is left in place, for the user to decide how to deal with it. Three notebooks are provided for my cursory analysis, a comparison with the other Kaggle set, and a template for creating this dataset.

Inspiration
There is a lot to explore, if the user is interested. The Global Health Observatory server alone has over indicators. How are the Global Health Observatory and United Nations Educational Scientific and Culture Organization life expectancies calculated, and what is causing the difference? That could also be asked for Gross National Income and mortality features. How does the life expectancy after age sixty compare to the life expectancy at birth? Is the relationship with the features in this dataset different for those two targets? What other indicators on the servers might be interesting to use? Some of the Global Health Observatory indicators are different studies with different coverage. Can they be combined to make a more useful and robust data feature? Unraveling the correlations between the features would take significant work.

Features: country, country code, region, year, life expectancy, life expectancy at sixty, adult mortality, infant mortality, age one to four mortality, alcohol consumption, body mass index, age five to nineteen thinness, age five to nineteen obesity, hepatitis, measles, polio, diphtheria, basic water, doctors, hospitals, gross national income per capita, general government health expenditure, current health expenditure as percentage of gross domestic product, United Nations population, United Nations infant mortality, United Nations life expectancy, United Nations human immunodeficiency virus, United Nations gross national income, United Nations poverty, United Nations education spending, United Nations literacy, United Nations school enrollment

Keywords: life expectancy, national level, health emergencies, well-being, public data, health observatory, education, mortality, income, poverty