QSAR-TID-100071 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100071. The dataset has ninety rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: MOLECULE_CHEMBL_ID and MEDIAN_PXC50. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100071. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and was created in September two thousand fifteen. The dataset should be cited as MetaQSAR project - September two thousand fifteen.

The dataset is related to the protein target Serine/threonine-protein kinase PAK two, which is a single protein and has the preferred name Serine/threonine-protein kinase PAK two. The protein target has several synonyms, including C-t-PAK two, Gamma-PAK, p twenty-one activated kinase two, p twenty-seven, and p thirty-four.

The protein target is classified as an enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/STE protein kinase group/STE protein kinase STE twenty family/STE protein kinase PAKA subfamily. The protein target is involved in several biological processes, including stimulatory C-type lectin receptor signaling pathway, cardiac muscle hypertrophy, protein phosphorylation, negative regulation of protein kinase activity, apoptotic process, signal transduction, metabolic process, phosphorylation, peptidyl-serine phosphorylation, adherens junction assembly, intracellular signal transduction, negative regulation of apoptotic process, regulation of MAPK cascade, protein autophosphorylation, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation, regulation of axonogenesis, localization, regulation of cytoskeleton organization, negative regulation of stress fiber assembly, dendritic spine development, bicellular tight junction assembly, cellular response to organic cyclic compound, cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus, and protein localization to cell-cell junction.

The protein target is also involved in several cellular components, including nucleus, cytoplasm, cytosol, plasma membrane, cell-cell junction, postsynaptic density, membrane, secretory granule, perinuclear region of cytoplasm, and glutamatergic synapse.

Keywords: QSAR, drug target, protein kinase, molecular fingerprints, MetaQSAR project, Serine/threonine-protein kinase PAK two, enzyme, kinase, protein phosphorylation, signal transduction, metabolic process.