KDD Cup 2009 Upselling Dataset

Customer Relationship Management (CRM) is a crucial element of modern marketing strategies. The KDD Cup 2009 provides an excellent opportunity to work on large marketing databases from the French telecom company Orange to predict the propensity of customers to switch providers (churn), buy new products or services (appetency), or buy upgrades or add-ons proposed to them to make the sale more profitable (upselling).

The most practical approach, in a CRM system, is to build knowledge about customers by producing scores. A score, which is the output of a model, is an evaluation for all instances of a target variable to explain, such as churn, appetency, or upselling. Tools that produce scores enable projecting quantifiable information onto a given population. The score is computed using input variables that describe instances. These scores are then utilized by the information system, for instance, to personalize customer relationships.

An industrial customer analysis platform capable of building prediction models with a vast number of input variables has been developed by Orange Labs. This platform implements various processing methods for instance and variable selection, prediction, and indexing based on an efficient model combined with variable selection regularization and model averaging methods. The primary characteristic of this platform is its ability to scale on extremely large datasets featuring hundreds of thousands of instances and thousands of variables.

The rapid and robust detection of the variables that contribute significantly to the output prediction can be a vital factor in marketing applications. Upselling, according to Wikipedia, is a sales technique where a salesperson attempts to persuade the customer to purchase more expensive items, upgrades, or other add-ons to make a more profitable sale. Upselling typically involves marketing more profitable services or products, but it can also involve exposing the customer to other options they may not have considered previously.

The training set comprises numerous examples. The initial predictive variables are numerical, while the latter predictive variables are categorical. The final target variable is binary.

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, OpenML100, Study 123, Study 14

Keywords: Customer Relationship Management, upselling, Customer Analysis Platform, Marketing Strategies, Prediction Models