Echocardiogram Data 

Tags: Health, Medicine 

Title 
The Echocardiogram Data 

Source Information 
The donor of this dataset is unknown. It was collected by the Reed Institute. The date received is unknown.

Past Usage 
Several researchers have used this dataset in the past. One researcher applied an exemplar-based learning method to predict survival and achieved eighty-seven correct predictions and twenty-nine incorrect predictions in an incremental application to this database. Another researcher showed that by tuning the method to this domain, it was able to derive a set of twenty-eight hyper-rectangles that could perfectly classify one hundred nineteen instances. Other researchers predicted the same variable using a different set of three hundred forty-five instances and recorded a sixty-one percent accuracy in predicting that a patient would die.

Relevant Information 
All the patients in this dataset suffered heart attacks at some point in the past. Some are still alive, and some are not. The survival and still-alive variables, when taken together, indicate whether a patient survived for at least one year following the heart attack. The problem addressed by past researchers was to predict from the other variables whether or not the patient would survive at least one year. The most difficult part of this problem is correctly predicting that the patient will not survive. Part of the difficulty seems to be the size of the dataset.

Number of Instances 
There are one hundred thirty-two instances in this dataset.

Number of Attributes 
There are thirteen attributes in this dataset, all of which are numeric-valued.

Attribute Information 
The attributes in this dataset include the number of months the patient survived, whether the patient is still alive, the age of the patient when the heart attack occurred, whether there was fluid around the heart, measures of contractility around the heart, measures of the size of the heart, a measure of how the segments of the left ventricle are moving, and others.

Missing Attribute Values 
Some attributes have missing values, denoted by a question mark.

Distribution of Attributes 
The distribution of the still-alive attribute is eighty-eight instances where the patient is dead and forty-three instances where the patient is alive. The distribution of the alive-at-one-year attribute is fifty instances where the patient did not survive, twenty-four instances where the patient survived, and fifty-eight instances where the value is unknown.

Features 
still alive, age, pericardial effusion, fractional shortening, e-point septal separation, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, wall motion score, wall motion index, alive at one year, class

Keywords: echocardiogram, heart attack, survival, contractility, left ventricle