This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, which is related to medicinal chemistry. Another study is MTP Two, which focuses on molecular descriptors influencing melting point and their role in classification of solid drugs. There are also Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two, all of which are related to neighborhood behavior and validation of molecular diversity descriptors.

Additionally, there is MTP, which deals with general melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks. Benzo Thirty-Two is another study, focusing on syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six alkoxy imidazo pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor.

Phenetyle One is a study on quantitative structure activity relationships, while PAH looks into weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors and their applications on modeling physiochemical properties of polyaromatic hydrocarbons. PDGF-R is a study on the development of linear, ensemble, and nonlinear models for the prediction and interpretation of biological activity of a set of PDGF-R inhibitors.

Phen is a study on interrelationship of regression models used for structure-activity analyses, while Topo Two One and Y Prop Four One are related to predictive toxicology and benchmarking molecular descriptors and statistical methods.

QSABR One and QSABR Two are studies on comparison of QSAR models for toxicity and biodegradability of anilines and phenols. QSAR-Tox is a study on QSAR for acute toxicity of saturated and unsaturated halogenated aliphatic compounds, while QSBR RW-One looks into structure-biodegradability relationships for chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.

QSBR Y-Two is a mechanistic approach to deriving QSBR, a case study on dehalogenation of haloaliphatic compounds. QSBR Alks is a study on mechanism-based quantitative structure-biodegradability relationships for hydrolytic dehalogenation of chloro and bromo alkenes. QSFR-DHLA is a study on quantitative structure-function relationships of single-point mutants of haloalkane dehalogenase, while QSFSR-One and QSFSR-Two look into quantitative structure-function and structure-stability relationships of purposely modified proteins.

Lastly, QSPr-CmpX is a study on stability of aromatic amides with bromide anion, and Selwood is a study on structure-activity relationships of antifilarial antimycin analogues.

Keywords: drug design, medicinal chemistry, molecular descriptors, quantitative structure-activity relationships, biodegradability, predictive toxicology, QSAR models.