Vehicle Silhouettes

The purpose of this dataset is to classify a given silhouette as one of four types of vehicle, using a set of features extracted from the silhouette. The vehicle may be viewed from one of many different angles.

This dataset was originally gathered to find a method of distinguishing three-dimensional objects within a two-dimensional image by application of an ensemble of shape feature extractors to the two-dimensional silhouettes of the objects. Measures of shape features extracted from example silhouettes of objects to be discriminated were used to generate a classification rule tree by means of computer induction. This object recognition strategy was successfully used to discriminate between silhouettes of model cars, vans, and buses viewed from constrained elevation but all angles of rotation.

The features were extracted from the silhouettes by the Hierarchical Image Processing System extension, which extracts a combination of scale-independent features utilizing both classical moments-based measures and heuristic measures. Four model vehicles were used for the experiment: a double-decker bus, a Chevrolet van, a Saab 9000, and an Opel Manta 400. This particular combination of vehicles was chosen with the expectation that the bus, van, and either one of the cars would be readily distinguishable, but it would be more difficult to distinguish between the cars.

The images were acquired by a camera looking downwards at the model vehicle from a fixed angle of elevation. The vehicles were placed on a diffuse backlit surface. The vehicles were painted matte black to minimize highlights. The images were captured using a framestore connected to a computer. All images were captured with a spatial resolution of pixels quantized to greylevels. These images were thresholded to produce binary vehicle silhouettes, negated and thereafter subjected to shrink-expand-expand-shrink modules to remove image noise.

The vehicles were rotated and their angle of orientation was measured using a radial graticule beneath the vehicle. Two sets of images, each set covering a full 360-degree rotation, were captured for each vehicle. The vehicle was rotated by a fixed angle between images.

Attributes:

Compactness
Circularity
Distance Circularity
Radius Ratio
Axis Aspect Ratio
Maximum Length Aspect Ratio
Scatter Ratio
Elongatedness
Axis Rectangularity
Maximum Length Rectangularity
Scaled Variance
Scaled Radius of Gyration
Skewness
Kurtosis
Hollows Ratio

Number of Classes: Four (Opel, Saab, Bus, Van)

Keywords: vehicle recognition, shape feature extraction, image processing, object classification, silhouette analysis