Shuttle

Tags: Study Two Eighteen, Study Seventy Six

Source: University of California, Irvine

Data Set Information: The majority of the data, approximately eighty percent, belongs to class Rad Flow. Therefore, the default accuracy is about eighty percent. The aim of this dataset is to obtain an accuracy of ninety-nine to ninety-nine point nine percent. The examples in the original dataset were in time order, and this time order could presumably be relevant in classification. However, this was not deemed relevant for StatLog purposes, so the order of the examples in the original dataset was randomized, and a portion of the original dataset removed for validation purposes.

Attribute Information: The shuttle dataset contains nine attributes, all of which are numerical. The first attribute is time. The last column is the class, which has been coded as follows: Rad Flow, Fpv Close, Fpv Open, High, Bypass, Bpv Close, and Bpv Open.

Relevant Papers: Not Applicable

Features: (omitted due to unreadability)

Scraped Data: Dataset Information

Additional Information: The majority of the data, approximately eighty percent, belongs to class Rad Flow. Therefore, the default accuracy is about eighty percent. The aim of this dataset is to obtain an accuracy of ninety-nine to ninety-nine point nine percent. The examples in the original dataset were in time order, and this time order could presumably be relevant in classification. However, this was not deemed relevant for StatLog purposes, so the order of the examples in the original dataset was randomized, and a portion of the original dataset removed for validation purposes.

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information: The shuttle dataset contains nine attributes, all of which are numerical. The first attribute is time. The last column is the class, which has been coded as follows: Rad Flow, Fpv Close, Fpv Open, High, Bypass, Bpv Close, and Bpv Open.

Keywords: shuttle, classification, accuracy, numerical attributes, time order, validation