This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The Chang dataset is one of the datasets taken exactly from the original study.

Original studies include Carbolenes, which is related to medicinal chemistry. Another study is MTP two, which focuses on molecular descriptors influencing melting point and their role in classification of solid drugs.

Other datasets include Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two. These datasets are related to neighbourhood behaviour, which is a useful concept for validation of molecular diversity descriptors.

Another study is MTP, which focuses on general melting point prediction based on a diverse compound dataset and artificial neural networks. Benzo thirty-two is also a dataset, which is related to syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six-alkoxyimidazo pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor.

PHENETYL one is a dataset that deals with QSAR, Hansch analysis, and related approaches. PAH is another dataset, which focuses on weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors. PDGFR is a dataset that deals with the development of linear, ensemble, and non-linear models for the prediction and interpretation of biological activity of a set of PDGFR inhibitors.

Phen is a dataset that explores interrelationship of regression models used for structure-activity analyses. Topo two one and Y Prop four one are datasets that focus on predictive toxicology, benchmarking molecular descriptors, and statistical methods.

Other datasets include QSAR BR one, QSAR BR two, QSAR Tox, QSBR RW one, QSBR Y two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR one, QSFSR two, and QSPrC MPX. These datasets deal with various aspects of quantitative structure-activity relationships, quantitative structure-property relationships, and quantitative structure-function relationships.

Selwood is a dataset that focuses on structure-activity relationships of antifilarial antimycin analogues, using a multivariate pattern recognition study.

Keywords: drug design, molecular descriptors, quantitative structure-activity relationships, medicinal chemistry, melting point prediction, artificial neural networks, benzodiazepine receptor, predictive toxicology, statistical methods.