The Committee on Statistical Graphics of the American Statistical Association invites you to participate in its Second Exposition of Statistical Graphics Technology. The purposes of the Exposition are to provide a forum in which users and providers of statistical graphics technology can exchange information and ideas and to expose those members of the American Statistical Association community who are less familiar with statistical graphics to its capabilities and potential benefits to them.

The Exposition will be held in conjunction with the Annual Meetings and is tentatively scheduled for the afternoon of one of the days. Several providers of statistical graphics technology participated in the previous Exposition. By all accounts, the Exposition was well received by the American Statistical Association community and was a worthwhile experience for the participants.

A paper summarizing the previous Exposition will appear in the Proceedings of the Statistical Computing Section. A copy of that paper is enclosed for your information. The basic format of the current Exposition will be similar to that of the previous one. However, based upon comments received and experience gained, there are some changes.

The basic structure, intended to be simpler and more flexible than last year, is as follows: A fixed data set is to be analyzed. This data set is a version of the Cars data set. Because of the Committee's limited budget for the Exposition, we are forced to provide the data in hardcopy form only. Sorry!

There are several observations on the following variables: miles per gallon, number of cylinders, engine displacement in cubic inches, horsepower, vehicle weight in pounds, time to accelerate from zero to sixty miles per hour in seconds, model year, and origin of car. These data appear on several pages. Also provided are the car labels, or types, in the same order as the variables on separate pages. Missing data values are marked by a series of question marks.

You are asked to analyze these data using your statistical graphics software. Your objective should be to achieve graphical displays that will be meaningful to the viewers and highlight relevant aspects of the data. If you can best achieve this using simple graphical formats, fine. If you choose to illustrate some of the more sophisticated capabilities of your software and can do so without losing relevance to the data, that is fine, too.

This year, there will be no Committee commentary on the individual presentations, so you are not competing with other presenters. The role of each presenter is to do their best job of presenting their statistical graphics technology to the viewers. Each participant will be provided with a large poster board on which to display the results of their analyses.

You are encouraged to remain by your presentation during the Exposition to answer viewers' questions. Several copies of your presentation must be submitted to us beforehand. Movie or slide show presentations cannot be accommodated. Sorry!

We will prepare our own poster presentation, which will orient the viewers to the data and the purposes of the Exposition. The American Statistical Association has asked us to remind all participants that the Exposition is intended for educational and scientific purposes and is not a marketing activity.

Those of us who were involved with the previous Exposition found it worthwhile and enjoyable to do. We would very much like to have you participate this year. For planning purposes, please respond to us in writing as to whether you plan to accept the Committee's invitation. If you have any questions about the Exption, please contact us.

If you cannot participate but know of another person or group in your organization who can, please pass this invitation along to them.

Tags: study_1, study_123, study_52
Dataset: Cars

Keywords: statistical graphics, American Statistical Association, data analysis, exposition, education