Data Description

This data set is from the Computational Intelligence and Learning competition. The data contains measurements of river chemical concentrations and algae densities.

Sources
Original Owner ERUDIT European Network for Fuzzy Logic and Uncertainty Modeling in Information Technology

Date Donated September 

Data Characteristics 
This data comes from a water quality study where samples were taken from sites on different European rivers over a period of approximately one year. These samples were analyzed for various chemical substances including nitrogen in the form of nitrates, nitrites and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, chloride. In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population distributions.

Other Relevant Information 
The competition involved the prediction of algal frequency distributions on the basis of the measured concentrations of the chemical substances and the global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size and its flow velocity. The competition instructions contain additional information on the prediction task.

Data Format 
There are a total of examples each containing seventeen values. The first eleven values of each data set are the season, the river size, the fluid velocity and eight chemical concentrations which should be relevant for the algae population distribution. The last eight values of each example are the distribution of different kinds of algae. These eight kinds are only a very small part of the whole community, but for the competition we limited the number to seven. The value zero point zero means that the frequency is very low. The data set also contains some empty fields which are labeled with the string XXXXX.

Task Description 

Protecting rivers and streams by monitoring chemical concentrations and algae communities. Intelligent Techniques for Monitoring Water Quality using chemical indicators and algae population 

Recent years have been characterized by increasing concern at the impact man is having on the environment. The impact on the environment of toxic waste, from a wide variety of manufacturing processes, is well known. More recently, however, it has become clear that the more subtle effects of nutrient level and chemical balance changes arising from farming land runoff and sewage water treatment also have a serious, but indirect, effect on the states of rivers, lakes and even the sea. In temperate climates across the world summers are characterized by numerous reports of excessive summer algae growth resulting in poor water clarity, mass deaths of river fish from reduced oxygen levels and the closure of recreational water facilities on account of the toxic effects of this annual algal bloom.

Reducing the impact of these manmade changes in river nutrient levels has stimulated much biological research with the aim of identifying the crucial chemical control variables for the biological processes. The data used in this problem comes from one such study. During the research study water quality samples were taken from sites on different European rivers over a period of approximately one year. These samples were analyzed for various chemical substances including nitrogen in the form of nitrates, nitrites and ammonia, phosphate, pH, oxygen, chloride. In parallel, algae samples were collected to determine the algae population distributions.

It is well known that the dynamics of the algae community is determined by external chemical environment with one or more factors being predominant. While the chemical analysis is cheap and easily automated, the biological part involves microscopic examination, requires trained manpower and is therefore both expensive and slow. Diatoms like Cymbella are major contributors to primary production throughout the world. The diatom reacts with large sensitivity to even small changes in acidity. Over a three and half billion year history algae have evolved and adapted as primary plant colonizers of almost every known habitat in terrestrial and aquatic environments. They respond very rapidly to manmade environment changes.

The relationship between the chemical and biological features is complex and can be expected to need the application of advanced techniques. Typical of such real-life problems, the particular data set for the problem contains a mixture of fuzzy qualitative variables and numerical measurement values, with much of the data being incomplete.

The competition task is the prediction of algal frequency distributions on the basis of the measured concentrations of the chemical substances and the global information concerning the season when the sample was taken, the river size and its flow velocity. The two last variables are given as linguistic variables.

Each participant in the competition receives two hundred complete data sets training data and one hundred forty data sets evaluation data containing only the eleven values of the river descriptions and the chemical concentrations. This training data is to be used in obtaining a model providing a prediction of the algal distributions associated with the evaluation data.

The training data are saved in the file analysis dot txt ASCII format. Structure of the file analysis dot txt A ... K a ... g CC one comma one ... CC one comma eleven AG one comma one ... AG one comma seven ... CC two hundred comma one ... CC two hundred comma eleven AG two hundred comma one ... AG two hundred comma seven

Explanation CC i j Chemical concentration or river characteristic AG i j Algal frequency The chemical parameters are labeled as A comma ... comma K. The columns of the algae are labeled as a comma ... comma g.

Evaluation data are saved in file eval dot txt ASCII format. Table two Structure of the file eval dot asterisk A ... K CC one comma one ... CC one comma eleven ... ... CC one forty comma one ... CC one forty comma eleven

Objective 
The objective of the competition is to provide a prediction model on the basis of the training data. Having obtained this prediction model, each participant must provide the solution in the form of the results of applying this model to the evaluation data. The results obtained in this way should correspond to the results of the evaluation data which are known to the organizer.

Criteria Used to Evaluate Results 
To judge the results, the sum of squared errors will be calculated. The following table describes the results of a particular participant. Matrix of results a ... g Res one comma one ... Res one comma seven ... Res one forty comma one Res one forty comma seven

All solutions that lead to a smallest total error will be regarded as winner of the contest.

Information About the Dataset 
CLASSTYPE numeric
CLASSINDEX last
ALGAE number one slash seven

Features season comma river size comma fluid velocity comma concentration one comma concentration two comma concentration three comma concentration four comma concentration five comma concentration six comma concentration seven comma concentration eight comma algae one

Keywords: Water Quality, Algae Communities, Chemical Concentrations, River Nutrient Levels, Biological Research, Environmental Impact, Manmade Changes, Advanced Techniques.