Default of Credit Card Clients 

Tags: Computational Universe, Computer Systems 

Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "classification on both numerical and categorical features" benchmark.

Original link: OpenML 
Original description:

This research aims at the case of customers' default payments in Taiwan and compares the predictive accuracy of probability of default among six data mining methods. From the perspective of risk management, the result of predictive accuracy of the estimated probability of default will be more valuable than the binary result of classification - credible or not credible clients. Because the real probability of default is unknown, this study presents the novel Sorting Smoothing Method to estimate the real probability of default. With the real probability of default as the response variable, and the predictive probability of default as the independent variable, the simple linear regression result shows that the forecasting model produced by artificial neural network has the highest coefficient of determination; its regression intercept is close to zero, and regression coefficient to one. Therefore, among the six data mining techniques, artificial neural network is the only one that can accurately estimate the real probability of default.

Data Set Information:

This research employs a binary variable, default payment, as the response variable. This study reviews the literature and uses the following twenty-three variables as explanatory variables: 
Amount of the given credit, which includes both the individual consumer credit and his or her family supplementary credit.
Gender, which is either male or female.
Education, which ranges from graduate school to others.
Marital status, which is either married, single, or others.
Age, in years.
History of past payment, which tracks the past monthly payment records from April to September, including the repayment status in each month.
Amount of bill statement, which includes the amount of bill statement in each month from April to September.
Amount of previous payment, which includes the amount paid in each month from April to September.

Relevant Papers:
The Comparisons of Data Mining Techniques for the Predictive Accuracy of Probability of Default of Credit Card Clients.

Keywords: credit card clients, default payments, data mining, risk management, artificial neural network, predictive accuracy.