Human Activity Recognition Database 

This database is built from the recordings of thirty subjects performing activities of daily living while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

The experiments have been carried out with a group of thirty volunteers within an age bracket of nineteen to forty-eight years. Each person performed six activities - walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying - wearing a smartphone on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured three-axial linear acceleration and three-axial angular velocity at a constant rate. 

The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where seventy percent of the volunteers were selected for generating the training data and thirty percent the test data.

The sensor signals - accelerometer and gyroscope - were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of two point five six seconds and fifty percent overlap. The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low-frequency components, therefore a filter with zero point three hertz cutoff frequency was used. 

From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

For each record in the dataset, it is provided - triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer and the estimated body acceleration; triaxial angular velocity from the gyroscope; a feature vector with time and frequency domain variables; and it's activity label.

This dataset version contains all the training and testing examples provided in the original data repository.

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, OpenML-CC18, OpenML100, Sport, Study 123, Study 14, Study 93, Study 99

Keywords: Human Activity Recognition, Smartphone, Accelerometer, Gyroscope, Sensor Signals, Feature Extraction.