This is a supervised learning challenge in machine learning, where thirty datasets are made available, all pre-formatted in given feature representations. Each example consists of a fixed number of numerical coefficients. The challenge is to solve classification and regression problems without any further human intervention. The difficulty lies in the broad diversity of data types and distributions, including balanced or unbalanced classes, sparse or dense feature representations, with or without missing values or categorical variables, various metrics of evaluation, and various proportions of the number of features and the number of examples.

The problems are drawn from a wide variety of domains, including medical diagnosis from laboratory analyses, speech recognition, credit rating, prediction of drug toxicity or efficacy, classification of text, prediction of customer satisfaction, object recognition, protein structure prediction, and action recognition in video data. While there exist machine learning toolkits that can solve all these problems, it is still considerable human effort to find, for a given combination of dataset, task, metric of evaluation, and available computational time, the combination of methods and hyper-parameter setting that is best suited.

The challenge is to create the perfect black box, eliminating the human in the loop. This is a challenge with code submission, where the code will be executed automatically on the servers to train and test the learning machines with unknown datasets. However, there is no obligation to submit code, as half of the prizes can be won by just submitting prediction results.

There are six rounds of progressive difficulty, with datasets introduced in each round. There is no prerequisite to participate in previous rounds to enter a new round. The rounds alternate between AutoML phases, where submitted code is blind tested in limited time on the platform, using datasets that have never been seen before, and Tweakathon phases, giving time to improve methods by tweaking them on those datasets and running them on own systems without computational resource limitation.

Features: class, and various numerical coefficients.

Keywords: supervised learning, machine learning, classification, regression, AutoML, black box, code submission, prediction results.