Pokémon Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

Pokémons are something that has fascinated me every single time. Who would believe that a young child used to be late to school almost every day because of watching those extra minutes of the Pokémon episode? Years later, that child is still deep inside me, fantasizing about the Pokémon world.

About the Data 

The dataset contains the details of all Pokémons from Generation One to Generation Eight. It describes the different attributes of Pokémons like Type, Hit Points, Attack Power, Defense Power, and so on, for a large collection of unique Pokémons.

Column Details 

Pokedex Number is the pokedex number of the Pokémon. 
Name is the name of the Pokémon. 
Type is the type of the Pokémon. Every Pokémon belongs to at least one type and at most two types. 
Other Type is the other type of the Pokémon, if any. The value of the column is Not Applicable if the Pokémon belongs to only one type.
Hit Points are the hit points of the Pokémon. 
Attack Power is the attack power of the Pokémon. 
Defense Power is the defense power of the Pokémon. 
Special Attack Power is the special attack power of the Pokémon. 
Special Defense Power is the special defense power of the Pokémon. 
Speed is the speed of the Pokémon. 
Total Power is the total power of the Pokémon, which is the sum of Hit Points, Attack Power, Defense Power, Special Attack Power, Special Defense Power, and Speed. 
Generation is the generation to which the Pokémon belongs. 
Legendary indicates whether the Pokémon is legendary or not. The Pokémon is Legendary if the value of the column is Yes. The Pokémon is Non-Legendary if the value of the column is No.

Inspiration 

The Pokémon with stats dataset was the main inspiration for this dataset. Along with all the Pokémon that were listed in that dataset, this dataset includes all the new Pokémon that were added in all generations including Generation Eight. The data was scraped from Complete Pokémon Pokedex using the requests library and parsed using Beautiful Soup.

Keywords: Pokémon, Generation, Type, Hit Points, Attack Power, Defense Power, Legendary