Red Wine
Tags: Data Description

The data were collected from May 2004 to February 2007 using only protected designation of origin samples that were tested at the official certification entity, the CVRVV. The CVRVV is an inter-professional organization with the goal of improving the quality and marketing of Vinho Verde. The data were recorded by a computerized system, iLab, which automatically manages the process of wine sample testing from producer requests to laboratory and sensory analysis. Each entry denotes a given test, either analytical or sensory. This dataset contains only the red wine. The goal is to use chemical analysis to determine the quality of the wine.

Attribute Description

The attributes include fixed acidity, volatile acidity, citric acid, residual sugar, chlorides, free sulfur dioxide, total sulfur dioxide, density, pH, sulphates, alcohol, and quality, which is the target feature.

Scraped Data: Dataset Information
For what purpose was the dataset created? 
The purpose of creating this dataset was for testing.

Additional Information
These data are the results of a chemical analysis of wines grown in the same region in Italy but derived from three different cultivars. The analysis determined the quantities of thirteen constituents found in each of the three types of wines. Initially, the dataset had around thirty variables, but unfortunately, only the thirteen-dimensional version remains. 

In a classification context, this is a well-posed problem with well-behaved class structures. This dataset is suitable for first testing of a new classifier, but it may not be very challenging.

Has Missing Values?
No, there are no missing values in this dataset.

Additional Variable Information
All attributes are continuous. There are no statistics available, but it is suggested to standardize variables for certain uses, such as for use with classifiers that are not scale-invariant.

Keywords: Red Wine, Chemical Analysis, Quality Determination, Classification, Wine Cultivars, Vinho Verde, Computerized System, Laboratory Analysis, Sensory Analysis.