Autism Adult Data

Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition associated with significant healthcare costs, and early diagnosis can significantly reduce these costs. Unfortunately, waiting times for an ASD diagnosis are lengthy and procedures are not cost-effective. The economic impact of autism and the increase in the number of ASD cases across the world reveals an urgent need for the development of easily implemented and effective screening methods. Therefore, a time-efficient and accessible ASD screening is imminent to help health professionals and inform individuals whether they should pursue a formal clinical diagnosis.

The rapid growth in the number of ASD cases worldwide necessitates datasets related to behavioral traits. However, such datasets are rare, making it difficult to perform thorough analyses to improve the efficiency, sensitivity, specificity, and predictive accuracy of the ASD screening process. Presently, very limited autism datasets associated with clinical or screening are available, and most of them are genetic in nature.

Hence, we propose a new dataset related to autism screening of adults that contains twenty features to be utilized for further analysis, especially in determining influential autistic traits and improving the classification of ASD cases. In this dataset, we record ten behavioral features, including the Autism Quotient Ten-Adult score, plus ten individual characteristics that have proven to be effective in detecting ASD cases from controls in behavioral science.

The dataset includes features such as scores for social skills, attention to detail, and communication skills, as well as individual characteristics like age, gender, ethnicity, and country of residence. The dataset also includes information on whether the individual has used autism-related applications before and the result of the screening.

Keywords: Autistic Spectrum Disorder, ASD Screening, Behavioral Traits, Autism Diagnosis, Healthcare Costs, Neurodevelopmental Condition.