Cricket Test Matches Innings-wise between 1900-2021

Tags: Context Cricket based datasets

Cricket-based datasets are not readily available for analysis on most portals. Hence, an effort has been made to provide test match data for a large number of tests after cleaning it for very special cases.

The columns are: Match Key, a unique key for each match calculated by the dataset creator; Batting Team Score, the score made by the batting team in that innings; Wickets, the number of wickets lost by the batting team at the end of the innings; Innings Result, whether the batting team declared or not in that innings; Overs, the number of overs bowled by the opponent or faced by the batting team; Run Per Over, the run rate per over, calculated as Score divided by Overs; Lead, the overall match lead by the batting team till the end of that innings; Innings Number, the innings number for each match; Result, the result of the match with respect to the batting team; Opposition, the bowling team in that innings; Host Country, the country where the match was played; and Start Date, the start date of the test match.

An over has six balls to be bowled. The decimal value in overs represents the number of balls bowled in the last over. So, the maximum value of the decimal place can be 0.5, whereas 0.6 gets converted to 1. For statistical analysis, it might be prudent to convert decimal values of overs, such as 0.1 to 0.166, 0.2 to 0.33, and 0.3 to 0.5, and so on.

Same teams may or may not play two continuous innings. The inspiration behind this dataset is to predict the match result after the end of the third innings. In cricket, generally, fans have a good idea of a likely result given the status of teams after the end of three innings, and sometimes even after two innings! How about putting a probability value for each of the three possible results?

The scope of further tasks is enormous.

Features: Match Key, Batting Team, Score, Wickets, Innings Result, Overs, Run Per Over, Lead, Innings Number, Result, Opposition, Host Country, Start Date

Keywords: Cricket, Test Matches, Innings-wise, Match Data, Statistical Analysis, Predictive Modeling