The Small Business Administration Loans Case Data Set 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

Should This Loan be Approved or Denied?

The Small Business Administration was founded in nineteen fifty-three to assist small businesses in obtaining loans. Small businesses have been the primary source of employment in the United States, helping with job creation, which reduces unemployment. Small business growth also promotes economic growth. 

One of the ways the Small Business Administration helps small businesses is by guaranteeing bank loans. This guarantee reduces the risk to banks and encourages them to lend to small businesses. If the loan defaults, the Small Business Administration covers the amount guaranteed, and the bank suffers a loss for the remaining balance.

There have been several small business success stories like Federal Express and Apple. However, the rate of default is very high. Many economists believe the banking market works better without the assistance of the Small Business Administration. Supporters claim that the social benefits and job creation outweigh any financial costs to the government in defaulted loans.

The Data Set 

The original data set is from the US Small Business Administration loan database, which includes historical data with twenty-seven variables. The data set includes information on whether the loan was paid off in full or if the Small Business Administration had to charge off any amount and how much that amount was.

The data set used is a subset of the original set, containing loans about the real estate and rental and leasing industry in California. This file has thirty-five variables. The column Default is an integer of one or zero, and it had to be changed to a factor.

Features: 
Selected, Loan Number Check Digit, Name, City, State, Zip, Bank, Bank State, North American Industry Classification System, Approval Date, Approval Fiscal Year, Term, Number of Employees, New Existence, Create Job, Retained Job, Franchise Code, Urban Rural, Revenue Line Credit, Low Documentation, Charge Off Date, Disbursement Date, Disbursement Gross, Balance Gross, Microbusiness Status, Charge Off Principal Gross, Gross Approval, Small Business Administration Approval, New, Real Estate, Portion, Recession 

Keywords: Small Business Administration, loans, guarantee, default, job creation, economic growth, recession, real estate, microbusiness.