Name: KDD Cup Ninety-Nine Seed Zero

Tags: Subsampling of the dataset KDD Cup Ninety-Nine with seed equal to zero, arguments number of rows equal to two thousand, arguments number of columns equal to one hundred, arguments number of classes equal to ten, and arguments no stratify equal to true.

Generated with the following source code:

This function subsamples a dataset. It takes in a seed, maximum number of rows, maximum number of columns, maximum number of classes, and a boolean indicating whether to stratify or not. It returns a subsampled dataset.

The function first uniformly samples classes. If the number of unique classes is greater than the maximum number of classes, it selects the maximum number of classes using their value counts as probabilities. It then selects the indices where one of these classes is present.

Next, it uniformly samples columns if required. If the number of columns is greater than the maximum number of columns, it selects the maximum number of columns. It then selects the corresponding columns.

If the number of rows is greater than the maximum number of rows, it stratifies accordingly. It concatenates the data and target, and then uses train test split to get a subset of the data. It then drops the target column and returns the subsampled dataset.

Features: duration, protocol type, service, flag, source bytes, destination bytes, land, wrong fragment, urgent, hot, number of failed logins, logged in, number of compromised, root shell, su attempted, number of root, number of file creations, number of shells, number of access files, number of outbound commands, is host login, is guest login, count, server count, server error rate, error rate, same server rate, different server rate, server different host rate, destination host count, destination host server count, destination host same server rate, destination host different server rate, destination host same source port rate, destination host server different host rate, destination host error rate, destination host server error rate, target.

Keywords: dataset subsampling, stratified sampling, feature selection, class selection, data preprocessing.