Gas-Turbine-2012 
Tags: Images, Life Science Test 

Features: Ambient Temperature, Ambient Pressure, Ambient Humidity, Air Filter Difference Pressure, Gas Turbine Exhaust Pressure, Turbine Inlet Temperature, Turbine After Temperature, Compressor Discharge Pressure, Turbine Energy Yield, Carbon Monoxide, Nitrogen Oxides 

The dataset contains instances of eleven sensor measures aggregated over one hour from a gas turbine located in Turkey’s northwest region for the purpose of studying flue gas emissions, namely carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides. The data comes from the same power plant as the dataset used for predicting hourly net energy yield. By contrast, this data is collected in another data range and includes gas turbine parameters, such as turbine inlet temperature and compressor discharge pressure, in addition to the ambient variables.

Note that the dates are not given in the instances, but the data are sorted in chronological order. See the attribute information and relevant paper for details. Kindly follow the protocol mentioned in the paper, using the first three years’ data for training and cross-validation and the last two for testing, for reproducibility and comparability of works.

The dataset can be well used for predicting turbine energy yield using ambient variables as features.

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information 
The explanations of sensor measurements and their brief statistics are given below. 
Variable Description 
Ambient Temperature measures the temperature of the surrounding environment.
Ambient Pressure measures the atmospheric pressure.
Ambient Humidity measures the moisture level in the air.
Air Filter Difference Pressure measures the pressure drop across the air filters.
Gas Turbine Exhaust Pressure measures the pressure of the gases exiting the turbine.
Turbine Inlet Temperature measures the temperature of the gases entering the turbine.
Turbine After Temperature measures the temperature of the gases exiting the turbine.
Compressor Discharge Pressure measures the pressure of the air discharged from the compressor.
Turbine Energy Yield measures the energy produced by the turbine.
Carbon Monoxide measures the amount of carbon monoxide present in the flue gas.
Nitrogen Oxides measure the amount of nitrogen oxides present in the flue gas.

Keywords: gas turbine, flue gas emissions, ambient variables, turbine energy yield, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides.