Volcanoes on Venus - JARtool Experiment Data Set Experiment: A One

The data was collected by the Magellan spacecraft over an approximately four-year period from nineteen ninety to nineteen ninety-four. The objective of the mission was to obtain global mapping of the surface of Venus using synthetic aperture radar. A more detailed discussion of the mission and objectives is available at Jet Propulsion Laboratory's Magellan webpage.

There are some spatial dependencies. For example, background patches from within a single image are likely to be more similar than background patches taken across different images. In addition to the images, there are "ground truth" files that specify the locations of volcanoes within the images. The quotes around "ground truth" are intended as a reminder that there is no absolute ground truth for this data set. No one has been to Venus, and the image quality does not permit one hundred percent, unambiguous identification of the volcanoes, even by human experts. There are labels that provide some measure of subjective uncertainty, which includes definitely a volcano, probably, possibly, and only a pit is visible.

The images are one thousand twenty-four by one thousand twenty-four pixels. The pixel values are in the range from zero to two hundred fifty-five. The pixel value is related to the amount of energy backscattered to the radar from a given spatial location. Higher pixel values indicate greater backscatter, while lower pixel values indicate lesser backscatter. Both topography and surface roughness relative to the radar wavelength affect the amount of backscatter.

Relevant papers include Magellan: Radar Performance and Data Products, which discusses the radar performance and data products of the Magellan mission. Another paper, Magellan Mission Summary, provides a summary of the Magellan mission. Additionally, Learning to Recognize Volcanoes on Venus explores learning to recognize volcanoes on Venus, and Knowledge Discovery in Large Image Databases deals with uncertainties in ground truth.

Features: 

Tags: Chemistry, Life Science, Study Seven

Keywords: Volcanoes, Venus, Magellan Spacecraft, Synthetic Aperture Radar, Global Mapping, Ground Truth, Spatial Dependencies, Image Quality, Pixel Values, Backscatter, Topography, Surface Roughness, Radar Wavelength.