**QSAR-TID-10472**
Tags: Life Science, Machine Learning, MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10472, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP 1024bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include molecule chembl id, fingerprint features, and median pxc fifty.

This dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project, and it was published in September 2015. 

Scraped Data:

The preferred name of this target is Cholecystokinin A Receptor, and its synonyms include CCK1-R, CCKAR, CCK-AR, CCK-A Receptor, and CCKRA. It belongs to the species group of Homo sapiens, and its protein target classification is one point membrane receptor family A G protein-coupled receptor peptide receptor family A GPCR short peptide receptor family A GPCR cholecystokinin receptor.

Description Relationship Accession Cholecystokinin Receptor Type A is a single protein, and its accession number is P32238.

Browse All Parent Molecule ChEMBL ID Parent Molecule Name Parent Molecule Type Mechanism of Action Max Phase First Approval USAN Stem References.

Showing one to four out of four records.

Component includes nucleoplasm, cytosol, plasma membrane, and membrane. Function includes G protein-coupled receptor activity, cholecystokinin receptor activity, peptide hormone binding, and peptide binding. Process includes neuron migration, signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, phospholipase C-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, axonogenesis, forebrain development, cellular response to hormone stimulus, cholecystokinin signaling pathway, and regulation of hormone secretion.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, molecular fingerprints, cholecystokinin A receptor, G protein-coupled receptor, peptide hormone binding.