Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset 
Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

The unprocessed dataset was acquired from the University of California, Irvine Machine Learning organization. This dataset is preprocessed by me, originally from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. The primary objective of the dataset is to accurately predict whether or not a patient has diabetes, based on multiple features included in the dataset.

I have achieved an accuracy metric score with the Random Forest Classifier using this dataset. Furthermore, I have even developed a web service, Diabetes Prediction System, utilizing that trained model. To gain a deeper understanding of the data, you can explore the Exploratory Data Analysis notebook.

Attributes 
Normal Value Range 
Glucose level: A glucose level below one hundred forty is considered normal, between one hundred forty and two hundred is considered pre-diabetic, and above two hundred is considered diabetic. 
Blood Pressure: A blood pressure below sixty is considered below normal, between sixty and eighty is considered normal, between eighty and ninety is considered stage one hypertension, between ninety and one hundred twenty is considered stage two hypertension, and above one hundred twenty is considered hypertensive crisis. 
Skin Thickness: A skin thickness below ten is considered below normal, between ten and thirty is considered normal, and above thirty is considered above normal. 
Insulin level: An insulin level below two hundred is considered normal, and above two hundred is considered above normal. 
Body Mass Index (BMI): A BMI below eighteen point five is considered underweight, between eighteen point five and twenty-five is considered normal, between twenty-five and thirty is considered overweight, and above thirty is considered obese.

Acknowledgments 
This dataset is inspired by multiple models trained on the original dataset, but only the Random Forest Classifier was able to achieve a high accuracy metric score, which further motivated me to preprocess the dataset to achieve an even higher accuracy metric score.

Can you build a machine learning model that can accurately predict whether a patient has diabetes or not, and can you achieve an accuracy metric score even higher than previously achieved without overfitting the model?

Keywords: Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset, Machine Learning, Random Forest Classifier, Diabetes Prediction System, Exploratory Data Analysis, Glucose Level, Blood Pressure, Skin Thickness, Insulin Level, Body Mass Index.