This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies. The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies include Carbolenes, MTP Two, Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two. 

Carbolenes is related to a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. MTP Two is related to a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three. 

The dataset Chang is related to a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. Similarly, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two are also related to various studies published in different scientific journals between nineteen seventy-two and two thousand five.

Benzo Thirty-Two is related to a study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six. Phenetyl One is related to a book titled QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches published in nineteen ninety-three. 

Pah is related to a study published in Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five. Pdgfr is related to a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand four. 

Phen is related to a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two. Topo Two One and Yprop Four One are related to a study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science in two thousand three.

Qsabr One, Qsabr Two, Qsartox, Qsbr Rw One, Qsbr Y Two, Qsbr Alks, Qsf Rdhla, Qsfsr One, Qsfsr Two, and Qspr Cmpx are also related to various studies published in different scientific journals between nineteen ninety-seven and two thousand.

Selwood is related to a study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Keywords: drug design, Adriana Code, medicinal chemistry, computational science, QSAR, chemical information, pharmaceutical research.