Online Shoppers Intention Tags: Test

Features:

Administrative Duration, Informational Duration, Product Related Duration, Bounce Rates, Exit Rates, Page Values, Special Day, Month, Operating Systems, Browser, Region, Traffic Type, Visitor Type, Weekend, Revenue

Scraped Data: Dataset Information

The dataset was acquired and annotated by professionals at a hospital. The subjective judgments, which are the target variables, were originally done in an ordinal manner and were discretized into two classes.

Images were randomly sampled from the original colposcopic sequences, which are videos. The original images and the manual segmentations are included in the images directory.

The dataset has three modalities, which are Hinselmann, Green, and Schiller. The target variables are expert assessments and consensus.

Has Missing Values? No

Additional Variable Information

The dataset has three modalities: Hinselmann, Green, and Schiller.

Number of Attributes: Sixty-Nine (Sixty-Two Predictive Attributes, Seven Target Variables)

Cervix Area: Image area with cervix. Os Area: Image area with external os. Walls Area: Image area with vaginal walls. Speculum Area: Image area with the speculum. Artifacts Area: Image area with artifacts. Cervix Artifacts Area: Cervix area with the artifacts. Os Artifacts Area: External os area with the artifacts. Walls Artifacts Area: Vaginal walls with the artifacts. Speculum Artifacts Area: Speculum area with the artifacts. Cervix Specularities Area: Cervix area with the specular reflections. Os Specularities Area: External os area with the specular reflections. Walls Specularities Area: Vaginal walls area with the specular reflections. Speculum Specularities Area: Speculum area with the specular reflections. Specularities Area: Total area with specular reflections. Area H Max Diff: Maximum area differences between the four cervix quadrants.

RGB Cervix R Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Red channel). RGB Cervix R Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Red channel). RGB Cervix R Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Red channel). RGB Cervix R Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Red channel).

RGB Cervix G Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Green channel). RGB Cervix G Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Green channel). RGB Cervix G Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Green channel). RGB Cervix G Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Green channel).

RGB Cervix B Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Blue channel). RGB Cervix B Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Blue channel). RGB Cervix B Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Blue channel). RGB Cervix B Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the cervix (Blue channel).

RGB Total R Mean: Average color information in the image (Red channel). RGB Total R Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Red channel). RGB Total R Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the image (Red channel). RGB Total R Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the image (Red channel).

RGB Total G Mean: Average color information in the image (Green channel). RGB Total G Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Green channel). RGB Total G Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the image (Green channel). RGB Total G Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the image (Green channel).

RGB Total B Mean: Average color information in the image (Blue channel). RGB Total B Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Blue channel). RGB Total B Mean Minus Standard Deviation: Average minus standard deviation color information in the image (Blue channel). RGB Total B Mean Plus Standard Deviation: Average plus standard deviation color information in the image (Blue channel).

HSV Cervix H Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Hue channel). HSV Cervix H Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Hue channel). HSV Cervix S Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Saturation channel). HSV Cervix S Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Saturation channel). HSV Cervix V Mean: Average color information in the cervix (Value channel). HSV Cervix V Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the cervix (Value channel).

HSV Total H Mean: Average color information in the image (Hue channel). HSV Total H Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Hue channel). HSV Total S Mean: Average color information in the image (Saturation channel). HSV Total S Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Saturation channel). HSV Total V Mean: Average color information in the image (Value channel). HSV Total V Standard Deviation: Standard deviation color information in the image (Value channel).

Fit Cervix Hull Rate: Coverage of the cervix convex hull by the cervix. Fit Cervix Hull Total: Image coverage of the cervix convex hull. Fit Cervix Bounding Box Rate: Coverage of the cervix bounding box by the cervix. Fit Cervix Bounding Box Total: Image coverage of the cervix bounding box. Fit Circle Rate: Coverage of the cervix circle by the cervix. Fit Circle Total: Image coverage of the cervix circle. Fit Ellipse Rate: Coverage of the cervix ellipse by the cervix. Fit Ellipse Total: Image coverage of the cervix ellipse. Fit Ellipse Goodness: Goodness of the ellipse fitting.

Distance to Center Cervix: Distance between the cervix center and the image center. Distance to Center Os: Distance between the cervical os center and the image center.

Expert Assessments: Subjective assessment of the experts (target variables). Consensus: Subjective assessment of the consensus (target variable).

Keywords: online shoppers, intention, test, dataset, colposcopic, images, modalities, attributes, cervix, artifacts, specularities, color information, convex hull, bounding box, circle, ellipse, fitting, distance, center, expert assessments, consensus.