The database was created with records of absenteeism at work from July 2007 to July 2010 at a courier company in Brazil. The data set allows for several new combinations of attributes and attribute exclusions, or the modification of the attribute type (categorical, integer, or real) depending on the purpose of the research.

### Attribute Information:

1. Individual Identification: a unique identifier for each individual
2. Reason for Absence: categorized into twenty-one categories based on the International Code of Diseases (ICD), including Certain Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, Neoplasms, Diseases of the Blood and Blood-Forming Organs, and others, as well as seven categories without ICD codes, such as patient follow-up, medical consultation, and unjustified absence
3. Month of Absence: the month in which the absence occurred
4. Day of the Week: the day of the week on which the absence occurred, categorized as Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday
5. Seasons: the season in which the absence occurred, categorized as summer, autumn, winter, or spring
6. Transportation Expense: the cost of transportation to and from work
7. Distance from Residence to Work: the distance in kilometers between the individual's residence and workplace
8. Service Time: the length of time the individual has been employed by the company
9. Age: the individual's age
10. Work Load Average per Day: the average amount of work completed by the individual per day
11. Hit Target: whether the individual met their work targets
12. Disciplinary Failure: whether the individual has failed to meet disciplinary standards
13. Education: the individual's level of education, categorized as high school, graduate, postgraduate, or master and doctor
14. Number of Children: the number of children the individual has
15. Social Drinker: whether the individual engages in social drinking
16. Social Smoker: whether the individual engages in social smoking
17. Number of Pets: the number of pets the individual owns
18. Weight: the individual's weight
19. Height: the individual's height
20. Body Mass Index: the individual's body mass index
21. Absenteeism Time in Hours: the total amount of time the individual was absent from work

Features: Individual Identification, Reason for Absence, Month of Absence, Day of the Week, Seasons, Transportation Expense, Distance from Residence to Work, Service Time, Age, Work Load Average per Day, Hit Target, Disciplinary Failure, Education, Number of Children, Social Drinker, Social Smoker, Number of Pets, Weight, Height, Body Mass Index, Absenteeism Time in Hours

Keywords: absenteeism, work, Brazil, courier company, International Code of Diseases, transportation expense, distance from residence to work, service time, education, social drinker, social smoker, body mass index.