House Sales Dataset

This dataset contains house sale prices for King County, which includes Seattle. It includes homes sold during a specific period of time. It contains nineteen house features plus the price and the identification columns, along with numerous observations. It's an excellent dataset for evaluating simple regression models.

The dataset includes various features describing the properties, including the unique identification number for each home sold, the date of the home sale, and the price of each home sold. Additionally, it provides details about the physical characteristics of the properties, such as the number of bedrooms, the number of bathrooms, and the square footage of the apartments' interior living space and the land space.

Furthermore, the dataset includes information about the properties' amenities and conditions, including whether the apartment was overlooking the waterfront or not, an index of how good the view of the property was, and an index of the condition of the apartment. It also provides information about the properties' construction and design, including an index grading the quality level of construction and design.

The dataset also includes information about the properties' size, including the square footage of the interior housing space that is above ground level and the square footage of the interior housing space that is below ground level. Moreover, it provides details about the properties' history, including the year the house was initially built and the year of the house's last renovation.

Finally, the dataset includes geographic information, including the zip code area the house is in, the latitude, and the longitude. It also provides information about the surrounding neighborhood, including the square footage of interior housing living space for the nearest fifteen neighbors and the square footage of the land lots of the nearest fifteen neighbors.

Keywords: House Sales, King County, Seattle, Regression Models, Property Characteristics, Amenities, Construction Quality, Geographic Information, Neighborhood Data