Machine Learning, Medicine 

The Nursery Database was derived from a hierarchical decision model originally developed to rank applications for nursery schools. This database was used during several years in the 1980s when there was excessive enrollment to these schools in Ljubljana, Slovenia, and the rejected applications frequently needed an objective explanation.

The final decision depended on three subproblems: occupation of parents and child's nursery, family structure and financial standing, and social and health picture of the family. The model was developed within an expert system shell for decision making.

The hierarchical model ranks nursery school applications according to the following concept structure: Evaluation of Applications for Nursery Schools, which consists of Employment of Parents and Child's Nursery, Family Structure and Financial Standings, and Social and Health Picture of the Family.

Employment of Parents and Child's Nursery consists of Parents Occupation and Child's Nursery. Family Structure and Financial Standings consists of Family Structure, which includes Form of the Family and Number of Children, and Housing Conditions and Financial Standing of the Family. Social and Health Picture of the Family consists of Social Conditions and Health Conditions.

Input attributes include Parents Occupation, Child's Nursery, Form of the Family, Number of Children, Housing Conditions, Financial Standing of the Family, Social Conditions, and Health Conditions.

Besides the target concept, the model includes four intermediate concepts: Employment, Family Structure and Financial Standings, Family Structure, and Social and Health Picture of the Family. Every concept is in the original model related to its lower-level descendants by a set of examples.

The Nursery Database contains examples with the structural information removed, i.e., directly relates Evaluation of Applications for Nursery Schools to the eight input attributes. Because of the known underlying concept structure, this database may be particularly useful for testing constructive induction and structure discovery methods.

Has Missing Values? No

Keywords: Nursery Database, Hierarchical Decision Model, Nursery Schools, Family Structure, Financial Standing, Social and Health Picture