QSAR-TID-100412 Tags: Demographics, MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 100412, and it has multiple rows and features including IDs and class feature. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings.

The dataset was obtained from the MetaQSAR project in September 2015. Please cite this dataset when using it.

The dataset contains information about the molecule, including its ChEMBL ID, and multiple molecular fingerprints.

Scraped Data:
The target protein is Serine/threonine-protein kinase PLK3, also known as Cytokine-inducible serine/threonine-protein kinase, FGF-inducible kinase, FNK, and PLK3. It belongs to the species Homo sapiens and is classified as an enzyme/kinase/protein kinase/other protein kinase group/other protein kinase PLK family.

The protein is involved in multiple cellular processes, including the kinetochore, spindle pole, nucleus, nucleoplasm, nucleolus, cytoplasm, Golgi apparatus, centrosome, microtubule organizing center, cytoskeleton, dendrite, and neuronal cell body.

It has multiple functions, including nucleotide binding, p53 binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and protein serine kinase activity.

The protein is involved in various biological processes, including the G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle, G2/M transition of mitotic cell cycle, negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, response to reactive oxygen species, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, response to osmotic stress, DNA damage response, DNA damage response, signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in cell cycle arrest, cell cycle, mitotic spindle organization, endomitotic cell cycle, response to radiation, phosphorylation, cytoplasmic microtubule organization, regulation of cytokinesis, negative regulation of apoptotic process, protein kinase B signaling, mitotic G1/S transition checkpoint signaling, regulation of cell division, Golgi disassembly, positive regulation of intracellular protein transport, regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator, and positive regulation of chaperone-mediated autophagy involved in cellular response to hypoxia.

Keywords: QSAR, MetaQSAR, Serine/threonine-protein kinase PLK3, Molecular Fingerprints, Cellular Processes, Biological Functions.