Social media is a vast pool of content, and among all the content available for users to access, news is an element that is accessed most frequently. These news articles can be posted by politicians, news channels, newspaper websites, or even common civilians. However, these posts have to be checked for their authenticity, since spreading misinformation has been a real concern in today's times, and many firms are taking steps to make the common people aware of the consequences of spreading misinformation.

The measure of authenticity of the news posted online cannot be definitively measured, since the manual classification of news is tedious and time-consuming, and is also subject to bias. This is why a published paper, available at http://www.ijirset.com/upload/june/Source.PDF, has addressed this issue.

Content data preprocessing has been done on the dataset, Getting Real about Fake News, and skew has been eliminated. This is crucial in an era where fake WhatsApp forwards and tweets are capable of influencing naive minds. Therefore, tools and knowledge have to be put to practical use in not only mitigating the spread of misinformation but also to inform people about the type of news they consume.

The development of practical applications for users to gain insight from the articles they consume, fact-checking websites, built-in plugins, and article parsers can further be refined, made easier to access, and more importantly, should create more awareness. This is essential in today's digital age, where the spread of misinformation can have severe consequences.

The dataset, Getting Real about Fake News, seemed the most promising for preprocessing, feature extraction, and model classification. This is due to the fact that all the other datasets lacked the sources from where the article or statement text was produced and published from. Citing the sources for article text is crucial to check the trustworthiness of the news and further helps in labeling the data as fake or untrustworthy.

The dataset's comprehensiveness in terms of citing the source information of the text, along with publication date and labels, is highly valuable. The features of the dataset include title, text, language, site URL, main image URL, type, and label.

Keywords: social media, news authenticity, misinformation, fake news, data preprocessing, fact-checking, awareness.