Movinga - Best Cities for Families 2019

Tags: Context

This data was scraped from Movinga, the global moving company, and determines the top cities around the world that offer the best conditions to raise a family. The dataset was extended to add geographical location in terms of the latitude and longitude of the city. The original data can be found on their website.

From their website: "We began the study by selecting one hundred fifty international cities that have a reputation as attractive locations for raising a family. We then split the study into numerous factors across three categories which indicate how family-friendly a location is. This included essentials that affect city livability, such as housing, education, employment rates, and general affordability, as well as family legislation, like the amount of paid parental leave and whether a city is inclusive for same-sex parents. It was important to include the opinions of the families who experience these cities themselves, so we commissioned two surveys of parents in each location to gain a measurement of public sentiment towards them. The first survey asked parents to indicate how they felt about their children's safety in the community, and the second if they believed that their city was a good place for families in general. Last but not least, we looked at the attractiveness and breadth of a city's family-oriented leisure activities. The final index combines all of these factors to determine the top cities around the world that offer the best conditions to raise a family."

Content

This data was scraped from Movinga, the global moving company. The original data can be found on their website. The data includes eighteen columns: City, Country, Housing Affordability, Living Costs by Income, Unemployment, Education, Safety, Mobility, Air Quality, Healthcare, Kids' Activities, Paid Parental Leave, Family Inclusivity, Neighbourhood Safety, Family Friendliness, Total, Latitude, and Longitude.

Note that all factors are scored out of one hundred, where the higher the score, the better. Further, the score for these factors was calculated by applying a mix-max normalization to the underlying indicator. For further details of the scoring and methodology of the study, please refer to their website.

Acknowledgements

The original data was provided by Movinga on their website.

Features: City, Country, Housing Affordability, Living Costs by Income, Unemployment, Education, Safety, Mobility, Air Quality, Healthcare, Kids' Activities, Paid Parental Leave, Family Inclusivity, Neighbourhood Safety, Family Friendliness, Total, Latitude, and Longitude

Keywords: family-friendly cities, global moving company, city livability, family legislation, public sentiment, family-oriented leisure activities, housing affordability, living costs, education, safety, mobility, air quality, healthcare, kids' activities, paid parental leave, family inclusivity, neighbourhood safety, family friendliness.