GEMLeR provides a collection of gene expression datasets that can be utilized for benchmarking gene expression-oriented machine learning algorithms. These datasets can be employed for estimating different quality metrics, such as accuracy, precision, and area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve, for classification, feature selection, or clustering algorithms.

This repository was inspired by an increasing need in the machine learning and bioinformatics communities for a collection of microarray classification problems that could be used by different researchers. This way, many different classification or feature selection techniques can finally be compared to each other on the same set of problems.

The origin of the data lies in the fact that each gene expression sample in the GEMLeR repository comes from a large publicly available Expression Project for Oncology repository by the International Genomics Consortium. The goal of the Expression Project for Oncology and its consortium supporters is to procure tissue samples under standard conditions and perform gene expression analyses on a clinically annotated set of de-identified tumor samples. The tumor data is updated with clinical outcomes and is released into the public domain without intellectual property restrictions.

The availability of this information translates into direct benefits for patients, researchers, and pharmaceutical companies alike.

Although there are various other sources of gene expression data available, a decision to use data from the Expression Project for Oncology repository was made due to the consistency of tissue samples processing procedures, the same microarray platform being used for all samples, the availability of additional information for combined genotype-phenotype studies, and the availability of a large number of samples for different tumor types.

In case of publishing material based on GEMLeR datasets, please note the assistance you received by using this repository. This will help others to obtain the same datasets and replicate your experiments.

Keywords: gene expression datasets, machine learning algorithms, microarray classification, bioinformatics, Expression Project for Oncology, gene expression analysis, tumor samples, genotype-phenotype studies.