The Social Dilemma Tweets Text Classification

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning

Context: The Social Dilemma, a documentary drama hybrid, explores the dangerous human impact of social networking, with technology experts sounding the alarm on their own creations as they examine the perils of social media.

Initial Release: January 2020

Director: [Removed]

Producer: [Removed]

Music Director: [Removed]

Screenplay: [Removed], [Removed], [Removed]

Content: This dataset provides Twitter responses made with the #TheSocialDilemma hashtag after watching the eye-opening documentary "The Social Dilemma" released on an Over-The-Top (OTT) platform (Netflix) on September ninth, two thousand twenty. The dataset was extracted using Twitter API, consisting of nearly ten thousand five hundred twenty-six tweets from Twitter users across the globe.

No columns descriptions:

User Name: The name of the user, as they have defined it.

User Location: The user-defined location for this account's profile.

User Description: The user-defined Unicode string describing their account.

User Created: Time and date when the account was created.

User Followers: The number of followers an account currently has.

User Friends: The number of friends an account currently has.

User Favorites: The number of favorites an account currently has.

User Verified: When true, indicates that the user has a verified account.

Date: UTC time and date when the Tweet was created.

Text: The actual Unicode text of the Tweet.

Hashtags: All the other hashtags posted in the tweet along with #TheSocialDilemma.

Source: Utility used to post the Tweet; tweets from the Twitter website have a source value - web.

Is Retweet: Indicates whether this Tweet has been retweeted by the authenticating user.

Sentiment (Target Variable): Indicates the sentiment of the tweet, consisting of three categories: positive, neutral, and negative.

Inspiration: You can use this data to delve deeper into the subjects who use this hashtag, examine the geographical distribution, evaluate sentiments, and identify trends.

Keywords: social dilemma, social networking, technology experts, Twitter API, sentiment analysis, online trends.