Name: Mercury in Bass
Tags: 

Source: Unknown - Date unknown

Please cite: Datasets of Data And Story Library, project illustrating use of basic statistic methods, converted to arff format by Hakan Kjellerstrand. Source: TunedIT: http://tunedit.org/repo/DASL DASL file http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/DASL/Datafiles/MercuryinBass.html

Mercury Contamination in Bass
Reference: Transactions of the American Fisheries Society
Authorization: contact authors

Description: Largemouth bass were studied in different Florida lakes to examine the factors that influence the level of mercury contamination. Water samples were collected from the surface of the middle of each lake in August and then again in March. The pH level, the amount of chlorophyll, calcium, and alkalinity were measured in each sample. The average of the August and March values were used in the analysis. Next, a sample of fish was taken from each lake with sample sizes ranging from a few to dozens of fish. The age of each fish and mercury concentration in the muscle tissue was measured. Since fish absorb mercury over time, older fish will tend to have higher concentrations. Thus, to make a fair comparison of the fish in different lakes, the investigators used a regression estimate of the expected mercury concentration in a three year old fish as the standardized value for each lake. Finally, in some of the lakes, the age of the individual fish could not be determined and the average mercury concentration of the sampled fish was used instead of the standardized value.

Variable Names:
ID: ID number
Lake: Name of the lake
Alkalinity: Alkalinity (mg/L as Calcium Carbonate)
pH: pH
Calcium: Calcium (mg/l)
Chlorophyll: Chlorophyll (mg/l)
Average Mercury: Average mercury concentration (parts per million) in the muscle tissue of the fish sampled from that lake
Number of samples: How many fish were sampled from the lake
Minimum: Minimum mercury concentration amongst the sampled fish
Maximum: Maximum mercury concentration amongst the sampled fish
Three year Standard mercury: Regression estimate of the mercury concentration in a three year old fish from the lake (or = Average Mercury when age data was not available)
Age data: Indicator of the availability of age data on fish sampled

Keywords: Mercury contamination, largemouth bass, Florida lakes, water samples, pH level, chlorophyll, calcium, alkalinity, fish age, muscle tissue, regression estimate