Turkiye Student Evaluation

Tags: Computational Universe, Machine Learning

Abstract: 
This dataset contains a total of evaluation scores provided by students from Gazi University in Ankara, Turkey. There is a total of twenty-eight course-specific questions and five additional attributes.

Source:
Center for Quality and Applied Statistics, Rochester Institute of Technology, New York, USA

Data Set Information:
N/A

Attribute Information:
Instructor Identifier: a unique identifier for each instructor; 
Course Code Descriptor: a unique code for each course;
Number of Times Repeated: the number of times a student has taken this course;
Attendance Code: a code indicating the level of attendance;
Difficulty Level: a rating of how difficult the course is perceived to be;

Question One: The semester course content, teaching method, and evaluation system were provided at the start.
Question Two: The course aims and objectives were clearly stated at the beginning of the period.
Question Three: The course was worth the amount of credit assigned to it.
Question Four: The course was taught according to the syllabus announced on the first day of class.
Question Five: The class discussions, homework assignments, applications, and studies were satisfactory.
Question Six: The textbook and other course resources were sufficient and up to date.
Question Seven: The course allowed fieldwork, applications, laboratory, discussion, and other studies.
Question Eight: The quizzes, assignments, projects, and exams contributed to helping the learning.
Question Nine: I greatly enjoyed the class and was eager to actively participate during the lectures.
Question Ten: My initial expectations about the course were met at the end of the period or year.
Question Eleven: The course was relevant and beneficial to my professional development.
Question Twelve: The course helped me look at life and the world with a new perspective.
Question Thirteen: The instructor's knowledge was relevant and up to date.
Question Fourteen: The instructor came prepared for classes.
Question Fifteen: The instructor taught in accordance with the announced lesson plan.
Question Sixteen: The instructor was committed to the course and was understandable.
Question Seventeen: The instructor arrived on time for classes.
Question Eighteen: The instructor had a smooth and easy-to-follow delivery speech.
Question Nineteen: The instructor made effective use of class hours.
Question Twenty: The instructor explained the course and was eager to be helpful to students.
Question Twenty-One: The instructor demonstrated a positive approach to students.
Question Twenty-Two: The instructor was open and respectful of the views of students about the course.
Question Twenty-Three: The instructor encouraged participation in the course.
Question Twenty-Four: The instructor gave relevant homework assignments projects and helped guided students.
Question Twenty-Five: The instructor responded to questions about the course inside and outside of the course.
Question Twenty-Six: The instructor's evaluation system effectively measured the course objectives.
Question Twenty-Seven: The instructor provided solutions to exams and discussed them with students.
Question Twenty-Eight: The instructor treated all students in a fair and objective manner.

Relevant Papers:
N/A

Citation Request:
If you publish material based on databases obtained from this repository, then, in your acknowledgments, please note the assistance you received by using this repository.

Keywords: Student Evaluation, Course Assessment, Teaching Method, Instructor Performance, Academic Development.