Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings 

Source:

Data Set Information:
The Parkinson's disease database consists of training and test files. The training data belongs to twenty individuals with Parkinson's disease (six females, fourteen males) and twenty healthy individuals (ten females, ten males) who appealed at the Department of Neurology in Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University. From all subjects, multiple types of sound recordings (twenty-six voice samples including sustained vowels, numbers, words, and short sentences) were taken. A group of twenty-six linear and time-frequency-based features were extracted from each voice sample. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score of each patient, which was determined by an expert physician, is also available in this dataset. Therefore, this dataset can also be used for regression.

After collecting the training dataset, which consists of multiple types of sound recordings, and performing experiments, in line with the obtained findings, an independent test set was collected from individuals with Parkinson's disease via the same physician's examination process under the same conditions. During the collection of this dataset, twenty-eight individuals with Parkinson's disease were asked to say only the sustained vowels 'a' and 'o' three times respectively, which makes a total of one hundred sixty-eight recordings. The same twenty-six features were extracted from voice samples of this dataset. This dataset can be used as an independent test set to validate the results obtained on the training set.

Training Data File:
Each subject has twenty-six voice samples including sustained vowels, numbers, words, and short sentences. The voice samples in the training data file are given in the following order: sample number - corresponding voice samples. 

Test Data File:
Twenty-eight individuals with Parkinson's disease were asked to say only the sustained vowels 'a' and 'o' three times respectively, which makes a total of one hundred sixty-eight recordings (each subject has six voice samples). 

Attribute Information:
Training Data File: 
column one: Subject identification 
columns two-twenty-seven: features 
column twenty-eight: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale 
column twenty-nine: class information 

Test Data File: 
column one: Subject identification 
columns two-twenty-seven: features 
column twenty-eight: class information 

Relevant Papers:

Keywords: Parkinson's disease, speech dataset, multiple types of sound recordings, unified parkinson's disease rating scale, machine learning, biomedical health informatics.