Dresses Sales

Tags: OpenML-CC18, OpenML100, study 123, study 135, study 14, study 144, study 98, study 99

This dataset contains attributes of dresses and their recommendations according to their sales. Sales are monitored on the basis of alternate days. The attributes present and analyzed are recommendation, style, price, rating, size, season, neckline, sleeve length, waistline, material, fabric type, decoration, pattern, and type.

The dataset provides a comprehensive analysis of dress attributes and their impact on sales. The recommendation attribute is the target variable, and the other attributes are used to predict the recommendation. The style attribute includes various styles such as Bohemian, brief, casual, cute, fashion, flare, novelty, OL, party, sexy, vintage, and work. The price attribute is categorized into low, average, medium, high, and very high. The rating attribute ranges from one to five. The size attribute includes small, medium, large, extra-large, and free sizes. The season attribute includes autumn, winter, spring, and summer.

The neckline attribute includes O-neck, backless, board-neck, Bowneck, halter, mandarin collar, open, Peter Pan collar, ruffled, scoop, slash-neck, square collar, sweetheart, and turndown collar. The sleeve length attribute includes full, half, half-sleeves, butterfly, sleeveless, short, three-quarter, and turndown. The waistline attribute includes dropped, empire, natural, princess, and null. The material attribute includes wool, cotton, mix, and others. The fabric type attribute includes shafoon, dobby, popline, satin, knitted, jersey, flannel, corduroy, and others.

The decoration attribute includes appliqué, beading, bow, button, cascading, crystal, draped, embroidery, feathers, flowers, and others. The pattern type attribute includes solid, animal, dot, leopard, and others.

Keywords: dresses, sales, recommendation, style, price, rating, size, season, neckline, sleeve length, waistline, material, fabric type, decoration, pattern.