QSAR-TID-17089 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 17089. The dataset has seventeen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Retinoid X Receptor Beta. The Retinoid X Receptor Beta is a single protein, also known as Nuclear Receptor Coregulator One, Nuclear Receptor Subfamily Two Group B Member Two, Rcor-One, Retinoic Acid Receptor RXR-Beta, and other synonyms. It is a transcription factor, a nuclear hormone receptor, and a nuclear receptor subfamily two group B member two.

The Retinoid X Receptor Beta is involved in various biological processes, including in utero embryonic development, maternal placenta development, regulation of DNA-templated transcription, cell differentiation, regulation of myelination, response to retinoic acid, steroid hormone mediated signaling pathway, positive regulation of DNA-templated transcription, positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway, anatomical structure development, ventricular cardiac muscle cell differentiation, and cardiac muscle cell proliferation.

The dataset is related to various pathways, including Nuclear Receptor Transcription Pathway, Signaling by Retinoic Acid, NR1H3 and NR1H2 Regulate Gene Expression Linked to Cholesterol Transport and Efflux, and NR1H2 and NR1H3 Regulate Gene Expression to Control Bile Acid Homeostasis.

Keywords: QSAR, Retinoid X Receptor Beta, Nuclear Receptor, Transcription Factor, Hormone Receptor, Biological Processes, Pathways.