Business Courses - Udemy 
Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

A compilation of all business-related courses available on Udemy's website. Under the business category, there are courses from finance, entrepreneurship, communication, management, sales, strategy, operations, project management, business law, data analytics, home business, human resources, and industry, each having multiple courses under its domain. All the details can be found on Udemy's website as well!

The dataset contains information related to ten thousand courses, which can be used to gain valuable insights. 

The twenty columns in the dataset provide information about:

Course ID: The unique identifier of each course.
Title: The distinct name of each course available under the business category on Udemy.
URL: The web address of each course.
Is Paid: A Boolean value indicating whether the course is paid or not.
Number of Subscribers: The total number of people enrolled in each course.
Average Rating: The overall rating of each course based on user reviews.
Average Rating Recent: The recent changes in the average rating of each course.
Number of Reviews: The total number of ratings and reviews each course has received.
Number of Published Lectures: The total number of lessons or lectures included in each course.
Number of Published Practice Tests: The total number of practice quizzes or tests provided in each course.
Created: The date and time when each course was created.
Published Time: The date and time when each course was published.
Discounted Price Amount: The reduced price at which each course is being offered.
Discounted Price Currency: The currency in which the discounted price is denominated.
Price Detail Amount: The original price of each course before any discounts.
Price Detail Currency: The currency in which the original price is denominated.

Keywords: business courses, Udemy, computer systems, machine learning, entrepreneurship, finance, data analytics, project management, human resources.