QSAR-TID-10778 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 10778. The dataset has eighty-two rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen, showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Death-associated Protein Kinase two. Death-associated Protein Kinase two is a single protein, also known as DAP Kinase two, DAP-kinase-related Protein one, and DRP-one. It is a protein kinase that belongs to the CAMK protein kinase group and CAMK protein kinase DAPK family.

The protein is involved in various biological processes, including protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, regulation of autophagy, phosphorylation, intracellular signal transduction, regulation of apoptotic process, positive regulation of apoptotic process, anoikis, protein autophosphorylation, positive regulation of neutrophil chemotaxis, and positive regulation of eosinophil chemotaxis. It is also involved in the regulation of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway.

The protein is localized in the nucleus, cytoplasm, Golgi apparatus, cytoplasmic vesicle, autophagosome lumen, and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle. It has various molecular functions, including nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine/threonine kinase activity, protein binding, calmodulin binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and identical protein binding.

Keywords: QSAR, Death-associated Protein Kinase two, DAP Kinase two, protein phosphorylation, apoptotic process, autophagy, signal transduction, protein kinase activity.