Mammographic Mass Data Set

Tags: Mammography is the most effective method for breast cancer screening available today. However, the low positive predictive value of breast biopsy resulting from mammogram interpretation leads to a significant number of unnecessary biopsies with benign outcomes. To reduce the high number of unnecessary breast biopsies, several computer-aided diagnosis systems have been proposed in recent years. These systems help physicians in their decision to perform a breast biopsy on a suspicious lesion seen in a mammogram or to perform a short-term follow-up examination instead.

This data set can be used to predict the severity, benign or malignant, of a mammographic mass lesion from Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System attributes and the patient's age. It contains a Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System assessment, the patient's age, and three Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System attributes together with the ground truth, the severity field, for masses that have been identified on full field digital mammograms collected at the Institute of Radiology.

Each instance has an associated Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System assessment ranging from definitely benign to highly suggestive of malignancy assigned in a double-review process by physicians. Assuming that all cases with Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System assessments greater or equal to a given value, are malignant and the other cases benign, sensitivities and associated specificities can be calculated. These can be an indication of how well a computer-aided diagnosis system performs compared to the radiologists.

Class Distribution: benign and malignant

Attributes: six attributes in total, one goal field, one non-predictive, and four predictive attributes

One: Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System assessment, an ordinal, non-predictive attribute
Two: Age, the patient's age in years, an integer
Three: Shape, the mass shape, a nominal attribute
Four: Margin, the mass margin, a nominal attribute
Five: Density, the mass density, an ordinal attribute
Six: Severity, the goal field, a binomial attribute

Missing Attribute Values: some instances have missing values for certain attributes

Notes: compared to the previous version, this dataset has the following differences: it contains missing values, and variable types are coded more correctly.

Keywords: mammography, breast cancer, computer-aided diagnosis, Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System, biopsy, radiology