QSAR-TID-11848 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2, and it has multiple rows and features. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project and contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen. It has sixty-six rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: MOLECULE CHEMBL ID and MEDIAN PX C50.

Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 is a single protein, also known as ACE2, ACEH, ACE-related carboxypeptidase, Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2, and Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme homolog. It is an enzyme, a protease, a metallo protease, and a metallo protease M2 family. It is found in Homo sapiens and is classified as a protein target.

The dataset is related to various biological processes, including regulation of cytokine production, angiotensin maturation, angiotensin-mediated drinking behavior, regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure by renin-angiotensin, proteolysis, tryptophan transport, viral life cycle, receptor-mediated endocytosis of virus by host cell, regulation of vasoconstriction, regulation of transmembrane transporter activity, regulation of cell population proliferation, viral entry into host cell, receptor-mediated virion attachment to host cell, negative regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation, regulation of inflammatory response, positive regulation of amino acid transport, maternal process involved in female pregnancy, positive regulation of cardiac muscle contraction, membrane fusion, negative regulation of ERK1 and ERK2 cascade, blood vessel diameter maintenance, entry receptor-mediated virion attachment to host cell, positive regulation of gap junction assembly, regulation of cardiac conduction, positive regulation of L-proline import across plasma membrane, negative regulation of signaling receptor activity, and positive regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process.

Keywords: Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2, QSAR data, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, MetaQSAR project, ChEMBL, biological processes, protein target, enzyme, protease, metallo protease.