Bitcoin Heist Ransomware Dataset

Tags: Dataset used in the tabular data benchmark, transformed in the same way. This dataset belongs to the "classification on both numerical and categorical features" benchmark.

Original link: https://openml.org/d/42553

Original description: 
The Bitcoin Heist Ransomware Dataset is a comprehensive collection of data extracted from the entire Bitcoin transaction graph from January to December. Using a twenty-four-hour time interval, daily transactions on the network were extracted and formed the Bitcoin graph. The network edges that transfer less than a certain threshold were filtered out, since ransom amounts are rarely below this threshold. Ransomware addresses were taken from three widely adopted studies.

On the heterogeneous Bitcoin network, in each twenty-four-hour snapshot, six features were extracted for an address: income, neighbors, weight, length, count, and loop. These features were designed to quantify specific transaction patterns. The loop feature is intended to count how many transactions split their coins, move these coins in the network by using different paths, and finally merge them in a single address. The weight feature quantifies the merge behavior, where coins in multiple addresses are each passed through a succession of merging transactions and accumulated in a final address. The count feature represents information on the number of transactions, whereas the weight feature represents information on the amount of transactions. The length feature is designed to quantify mixing rounds on Bitcoin, where transactions receive and distribute similar amounts of coins in multiple rounds with newly created addresses to hide the coin origin.

White Bitcoin addresses were capped at a certain number per day. Note that although we are certain about ransomware labels, we do not know if all white addresses are in fact not related to ransomware. When compared to non-ransomware addresses, ransomware addresses exhibit more profound right skewness in distributions of feature values.

Features: day, length, weight, count, looped, neighbors, income, label

Keywords: Bitcoin, Ransomware, Transaction Graph, Classification, Numerical Features, Categorical Features