The World Happiness Report 2019

The data has been released by SDSN and extracted by PromptCloud's custom web crawling solution. The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness that ranks countries by how happy their citizens perceive themselves to be. This year's report focuses on happiness and community, how happiness has evolved over the past dozen years, with a focus on the technologies, social norms, conflicts, and government policies that have driven those changes.

What is Dystopia?
Dystopia is an imaginary country that has the world's least happy people. The purpose in establishing Dystopia is to have a benchmark against which all countries can be favorably compared - no country performs more poorly than Dystopia in terms of each of the six key variables, thus allowing each sub-bar to be of positive or zero in six instances width. The lowest scores observed for the six key variables therefore characterize Dystopia. Since life would be very unpleasant in a country with the world's lowest incomes, lowest life expectancy, lowest generosity, most corruption, least freedom, and least social support, it is referred to as Dystopia, in contrast to Utopia.

What are the residuals?
The residuals or unexplained components differ for each country, reflecting the extent to which the six variables either over- or under-explain average life evaluations. These residuals have an average value of approximately zero over the whole set of countries. We combine these residuals with the estimate for life evaluations in Dystopia so that the combined bar will always have positive values. As can be seen, although some life evaluation residuals are quite large, occasionally exceeding one point on the scale from 0 to 10, they are always much smaller than the calculated value in Dystopia where the average life is rated at 1.88 on the 0-to-10 scale.

Why do we use these six factors to explain life evaluations?
The variables used reflect what has been broadly found in research literature to be important in explaining national-level differences in life evaluations. Some important variables such as unemployment or inequality do not appear because comparable international data are not yet available for the full sample of countries. The variables are intended to illustrate important lines of correlation rather than reflect clean causal estimates since some of the data are drawn from the same surveys sources, some are correlated with each other or with other important factors for which we do not have measures, and in several instances there are likely to be two-way relations between life evaluations and the chosen variables. For example, healthy people are overall happier, but as demonstrated, happier people are overall healthier.

Keywords: World Happiness Report, Dystopia, Life Evaluations, Global Happiness, Community, Technologies, Social Norms, Conflicts, Government Policies