This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID. It has forty-nine rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. These fingerprints were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systemes BIOVIA.

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include molecule ChEMBL ID and median pXC fifty.

This dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID, and it has forty-nine rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature.

The dataset is part of the MetaQSAR project, which aims to provide a comprehensive collection of QSAR datasets for various drug targets.

The dataset is related to demographics and MTL QSAR studies.

The drug target is glutamate carboxypeptidase two, also known as folate hydrolase one, folyl poly gamma glutamate carboxypeptidase, GCPII, and other synonyms.

The protein target classification is enzyme, protease, metallo protease, metallo protease MH clan, metallo protease M twenty-eight family, metallo protease M twenty-eight B subfamily.

The dataset is related to various gene ontology terms, including plasma membrane, cell surface, membrane, catalytic activity, carboxypeptidase activity, metallocarboxypeptidase activity, peptidase activity, metallopeptidase activity, hydrolase activity, dipeptidase activity, metal ion binding, Ac-Asp-Glu binding, tetrahydrofolyl-polyglutamate polymer binding, proteolysis, folic acid-containing compound metabolic process, metabolic process, protein catabolic process, C-terminal protein deglutamylation, positive regulation of apoptotic process.

Keywords: QSAR, demographics, MTL QSAR, glutamate carboxypeptidase two, folate hydrolase one, gene ontology, protein target classification, metallo protease, folic acid, metabolic process.