QSAR-TID-38 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Epoxide Hydrolase One, and it has seventy rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Epoxide Hydrolase One. Epoxide Hydrolase One is a single protein with preferred name Epoxide Hydrolase One and synonyms EPHX, EPHX One, EPOX, Epoxide Hydratase, and Epoxide Hydrolase One. It is an enzyme, a protease, a serine protease, and a serine protease S33 family. It is found in Homo sapiens and is classified as an enzyme, a protease, a serine protease, and a serine protease S33 family.

The dataset has seventy rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Epoxide Hydrolase One is involved in various biological processes, including lipid metabolic process, cellular aromatic compound metabolic process, xenobiotic metabolic process, response to toxic substance, response to organic cyclic compound, arachidonic acid metabolic process, aromatic compound catabolic process, and epoxide metabolic process. It is also involved in various cellular components, including endoplasmic reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum membrane, membrane, and intracellular membrane-bounded organelle.

Keywords: Epoxide Hydrolase One, QSAR, Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, lipid metabolic process, xenobiotic metabolic process, response to toxic substance.