Heart Disease Databases

This directory contains four databases concerning heart disease diagnosis. All attributes are numeric-valued. The data was collected from four different locations: Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Hungarian Institute of Cardiology in Budapest, V.A. Medical Center in Long Beach, California, and University Hospital in Zurich, Switzerland.

Each database has the same instance format. Although the databases have seventy-six raw attributes, only fourteen of them are actually used. Two copies of each database have been made: one with all the attributes and one with the fourteen attributes used in past experiments.

The authors of the databases have requested that any publications resulting from the use of the data include the names of the principal investigators responsible for the data collection at each institution.

Title: Heart Disease Databases
Source Information:
Creators: 
Donor: 
Date: 

Past Usage:

International application of a new probability algorithm for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease.
Address: 
Results in percent accuracy: 
Data Name: 
Cleveland: 
Hungarian: 
Long Beach: 
Swiss: 
Approximately a seventy-seven percent correct classification accuracy with a logistic-regression-derived discriminant function

Instance-based prediction of heart-disease presence with the Cleveland database 
NTgrowth: 
C4: 

CLASSIT conceptual clustering system achieved a seventy-eight point nine percent accuracy on the Cleveland database.

Relevant Information:
This database contains seventy-six attributes, but all published experiments refer to using a subset of fourteen of them. In particular, the Cleveland database is the only one that has been used by machine learning researchers to date. The goal field refers to the presence of heart disease in the patient. It is integer valued from zero (no presence) to four. Experiments with the Cleveland database have concentrated on simply attempting to distinguish presence (values one, two, three, four) from absence (value zero).

Number of Instances:
Database: 
Cleveland: 
Hungarian: 
Switzerland: 
Long Beach VA: 

Number of Attributes: 
seventy-six (including the predicted attribute)

Attribute Information:
Only fourteen used 
age 
sex 
chest pain type 
resting blood pressure 
serum cholesterol 
fasting blood sugar 
resting electrocardiographic results 
maximum heart rate achieved 
exercise induced angina 
ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest 
slope of the peak exercise ST segment 
number of major vessels 
diagnosis of heart disease 

Complete attribute documentation:
patient identification number 
social security number 
age in years 
sex 
chest pain location 
pain provoked by exertion 
relieved after rest 
sum of five, six, and seven 
chest pain type 
resting blood pressure 
smoke 
cigarettes per day 
years as a smoker 
fasting blood sugar 
history of diabetes 
family history of coronary artery disease 
resting electrocardiographic results 
month of exercise ECG reading 
day of exercise ECG reading 
year of exercise ECG reading 
digitalis used during exercise ECG 
beta blocker used during exercise ECG 
nitrates used during exercise ECG 
calcium channel blocker used during exercise ECG 
diuretic used during exercise ECG 
exercise protocol 
duration of exercise test in minutes 
time when ST measure depression was noted 
mets achieved 
maximum heart rate achieved 
resting heart rate 
peak exercise blood pressure 
dummy 
resting blood pressure 
exercise induced angina 
ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest 
slope of the peak exercise ST segment 
height at rest 
height at peak exercise 
number of major vessels 
irrelevant 
irrelevant 
rest radionuclide ejection fraction 
rest wall motion abnormality 
exercise radionuclide ejection fraction 
exercise wall motion 
three = normal 
six = fixed defect 
seven = reversible defect 
not used 
not used 
not used 
month of cardiac catheterization 
day of cardiac catheterization 
year of cardiac catheterization 
diagnosis of heart disease 
less than fifty percent diameter narrowing 
greater than fifty percent diameter narrowing 
last name of patient 

Missing Attribute Values: 
Several. Distinguished with value negative nine point zero.

Class Distribution:
Database: 
zero 
one 
two 
three 
four 
Total 
Cleveland: 
Hungarian: 
Switzerland: 
Long Beach VA: 

Keywords: Heart Disease, Diagnosis, Machine Learning, Classification, Prediction, Coronary Artery Disease, Angiography, Electrocardiogram, Blood Pressure, Cholesterol, Diabetes, Smoking.