This dataset is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets were formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs were taken from the original studies.

The Carbolenes dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The MTP Two dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.

Several datasets were taken from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry. These include Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat Two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama One, and Yokoyama Two.

The MTP dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Model.

The Benzo Thirty-Two dataset was taken from the original study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

The Phenetyl One dataset was taken from the original study published in QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches.

The PAH dataset was taken from the original study published in Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems.

The PDGF-R dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science.

The Phen dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Several datasets were taken from the original study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computational Science. These include Topo Two One, Y Prop Four One, QSAR BR One, QSAR BR Two, QSARTOX, QSBR RW One, QSBR Y Two, QSBR Alks, QSFR DH LA, QSFSR One, QSFSR Two, and QSPR CMPX.

The Selwood dataset was taken from the original study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry.

Tags: Machine Learning, Mathematics

Keywords: Drug Design, QSAR, Machine Learning, Adriana Code, Molecules, Outputs, Original Studies, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science.