FRED-MD is a Monthly Database for Macroeconomic Research, designed for the empirical analysis of big data. The dataset of monthly observations mimics the coverage of datasets already used in the literature, but it adds three appealing features. It is updated in real-time through the FRED database, making it a reliable source of data. It is publicly accessible, facilitating the replication of empirical work and allowing researchers to build upon existing studies. Additionally, it relieves the researcher of the task of incorporating data changes and revisions, a task accomplished by the data desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.

The accompanying papers show that factors extracted from the FRED-MD dataset share comparable information content to various vintages of so-called Stock-Watson datasets. These factor estimates are shown to be useful for forecasting a wide range of macroeconomic series. In addition, we find that diffusion indexes constructed as the partial sum of the factor estimates can potentially be useful for the study of business cycle chronology.

We used the file for monthly data and performed some preprocessing. We transformed each column following the transformation code available in the original paper, which includes no transformation, delta, delta squared, log, delta log, delta squared log, and delta of the growth rate. We dropped the first three rows to get rid of NaNs due to the transformations and the last four rows to only consider dates until a certain point. We standardized the date column to the format year-month-day and renamed it to date. We dropped columns that only have values starting later than a certain date, created a column for the series identifier, ensured that there are no missing dates and that they are evenly spaced, created a column for the time step, and filled NaN values with the last valid observation.

The dataset features include date, series identifier, and various value columns. We casted the series identifier as a category.

Keywords: macroeconomic research, big data, real-time updates, publicly accessible, data revisions, forecasting, business cycle chronology.