The data sets in this directory are taken from the book titled The Multivariate Social Scientist: Introductory Statistics Using Generalized Linear Models.

The data are presented in two formats, ASCII and SPSS portable. The GLIM code and macros are provided in separate files.

Please note that there are some minor differences between these data sets and those reported in the book, as indicated in the errata file.

The data files include:

Chapter One, Table One Point One, which examines video games and hostility.

Chapter Two, Tables Two Point One, Two Point Two, and Two Point Three, which explore normal errors, skewed errors, and curvilinearity respectively.

Chapter Three, Tables Three Point One, Three Point Five, Three Point Seven, and Three Point Eleven, which discuss two simple models, cost and sound quality, exam marks and college offers, and quality of children's testimonies. The latter table includes variables such as age, gender, location, coherence, maturity, delay, prosecute, and quality.

A modified version of Table Three Point Eleven, titled Table Three Point Elevend, includes indicator dummy codes.

Chapter Four, Tables Four Point One and Four Point Fourteen, examine infection severity and treatment outcome, as well as infection severity, treatment outcome, and hospital attended. A modified version of the latter table, titled Table Four Point Fourteend, includes dummy codes.

The child witness data set, Logis, is a copy of Table Three Point Eleven, but includes prosecution. Logis D is a copy of Table Three Point Elevend, also including prosecution. These data sets provide the necessary information to calculate the parameters discussed in the book.

Chapter Five, Tables Five Point One, Five Point Four, Five Point Seven, Five Point Eight, Five Point Ten, Five Point Eleven, Five Point Thirteen, Five Point Sixteen, and Five Point Seventeen, explore job satisfaction for doctors and dentists, race, housing and illness, dopamine and psychosis, treatment and depression, alcohol consumption and libido.

Chapter Six, Table Six Point Eleven, provides child witness example data.

Features include age, gender, location, coherence, maturity, delay, prosecute, and quality.

Keywords: statistics, generalized linear models, social science, data analysis, child witness testimony, psychology, medicine, education.