Name: Ionosphere
Tags: mythbusting, study, uci

Johns Hopkins University Ionosphere database

This radar data was collected by a system in Goose Bay, Labrador. The system consists of a phased array of sixteen high-frequency antennas with a total transmitted power on the order of six point four kilowatts. For more details, please refer to the associated paper.

Attribute information:
Received signals were processed using an autocorrelation function whose arguments are the time of a pulse and the pulse number. There were seventeen pulse numbers for the Goose Bay system. Instances in this database are described by two attributes per pulse number, corresponding to the complex values returned by the function resulting from the complex electromagnetic signal.

The targets were free electrons in the ionosphere. "Good" radar returns are those showing evidence of some type of structure in the ionosphere. "Bad" returns are those that do not; their signals pass through the ionosphere.

Relevant papers:
A paper discussing the classification of radar returns from the ionosphere using neural networks was published in the Johns Hopkins APL Technical Digest.

Features:
The dataset includes thirty four continuous features labeled a followed by a number, and a class feature.

Dataset Information:
This radar data was collected by a system in Goose Bay, Labrador. The system consists of a phased array of sixteen high-frequency antennas with a total transmitted power on the order of six point four kilowatts. For more details, please refer to the associated paper.

The targets were free electrons in the ionosphere. "Good" radar returns are those showing evidence of some type of structure in the ionosphere. "Bad" returns are those that do not; their signals pass through the ionosphere.

Received signals were processed using an autocorrelation function whose arguments are the time of a pulse and the pulse number. There were seventeen pulse numbers for the Goose Bay system. Instances in this database are described by two attributes per pulse number, corresponding to the complex values returned by the function resulting from the complex electromagnetic signal.

Additional Information:
The dataset does not contain missing values. All thirty four features are continuous. The thirty fifth attribute is either "good" or "bad" according to the definition summarized above. This is a binary classification task.

Keywords: ionosphere, radar, electromagnetic signal, binary classification, autocorrelation function, free electrons, high-frequency antennas