Problem Statement

The following Data Analysis of Marketing Campaigns is part of the assignment for Data Science Intern at Merkle Sokrati.

Objectives of the Task

The primary objectives of this task are to carry out Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and build a Machine Learning (ML) model to evaluate the insights automatically. Additionally, a summary of the analysis should be prepared and presented in a professional-looking deck.

Content

The dataset consists of marketing campaigns containing data from October to July, which is sourced from Google and Facebook campaigns. This data showcases the performance of different age groups for various dimensions. All key fields, such as Platform, Type, Medium, Sub Channel, Audience, and Creative, have already been mapped to the data.

Platform

The marketing platforms on which campaigns are running are primarily Google Ads and Facebook Ads.

Type

The type of campaign considered in this data is limited to Google Search and Facebook Conversion campaigns.

Medium

The medium refers to the way we connect with people in our marketing campaigns, either via some keywords or creatives.

Sub Channel

The subchannel is a subset of Google Search, which type of keywords have been targeted, and in Facebook, it refers to which subchannel we are targeting.

Audience

Multiple types of audiences are being targeted in different campaigns, and these have been encrypted as Audience One, Two, Three, and so on.

Creative

This refers to Facebook, where the type of image, video, or carousel we are using in our ads is specified.

Dataset Features

The dataset features include Date, Product, Phase, Campaign Platform, Campaign Type, Communication Medium, Subchannel, Audience Type, Creative Type, Creative Name, Device, Age, Spends, Impressions, Clicks, and Link Clicks.

Tags: Advertising Campaign Analytics Merkle Sokrati

Keywords: Marketing Campaigns, Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Google Ads, Facebook Ads, Age Groups, Dimensions, Platform, Type, Medium, Sub Channel, Audience, Creative.