Contaminant Detection in Packaged Cocoa Hazelnut Spread Jars Using Microwaves Sensing and Machine Learning 

This dataset is part of a series of five different datasets, each measured with a different microwave frequency. 

Dataset Description 

To detect contaminants accidentally included in industrial food, Microwave Sensing can be used as a contactless detection method, particularly when the food is already packaged. Microwave Sensing uses microwaves to illuminate the target object through a set of antennas, records the scattered waves, and uses Machine Learning to predict the presence of contaminants inside the target object. 

In this application, the target object is a cocoa hazelnut spread jar, and each instance, or sample, of this dataset consists of thirty scattering parameters of the network composed by antennas, target object (a jar with or without a contaminant inside), and medium (i.e., the air) in between. 

The types of contaminants vary from metal to glass and plastic. Each sample has been measured at five different microwave frequencies.

Data Set Characteristics 

The total number of instances is two thousand four hundred. There are twelve hundred uncontaminated instances and twelve hundred contaminated instances. There are eleven classes in total. The last column, column thirty-one, contains the class label as an integer value.

There are two hundred instances of the "air surface" class, which refers to a cap-shaped plastic with the same dielectric constant as the air. There are one hundred instances of the "big pink plastic sphere middle" class, one hundred instances of the "big pink plastic sphere surface" class, one hundred instances of the "glass fragment middle" class, one hundred instances of the "glass fragment surface" class, one hundred instances of the "small metal sphere middle" class, one hundred instances of the "small metal sphere surface" class, one hundred instances of the "small plastic sphere middle" class, one hundred instances of the "small plastic sphere surface" class, and two hundred instances of the "small triangular plastic fragment surface" class. 

The term "surface" means that the instance was placed on top of the cocoa hazelnut spread, at the spread-air interface. The term "middle" means that the instance was placed in the middle of the jar filled with cocoa hazelnut spread.

There are thirty attributes in a generic instance. These attributes represent the six-by-six Scattering Matrix, which includes fifteen elements of the triangular upper part of the matrix. Since each of these elements is a complex number with real and imaginary parts, each instance is a vector of fifteen times two equals thirty attributes. The real and imaginary parts of each element are placed one after the other.

Keywords: Microwave Sensing, Machine Learning, Contaminant Detection, Packaged Food, Industrial Food Safety