White Clover Persistence Trials Data 

The objective of this study was to determine the mechanisms that influence the persistence of white clover populations in summer dry hill land, specifically referencing the consequences of a severe summer dry period in nineteen ninety-three/nineteen ninety-four and its impact on the performance of three white clover cultivars in an ongoing experiment located at Whatawhata Research Centre.

The machine learning objective was to predict the amount of white clover in nineteen ninety-four from the amount of white clover and other species in the years nineteen ninety-one to nineteen ninety-four, as well as information on the strata where the white clover was being grown.

Attribute Information:

Strata is an enumerated attribute.
Plot is an enumerated attribute.
Paddock is an enumerated attribute.
White Clover Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of white clover in nineteen ninety-one.
Bare Ground Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of bare ground in nineteen ninety-one.
Cocksfoot Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of cocksfoot in nineteen ninety-one.
Other Grasses Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of other grasses in nineteen ninety-one.
Other Legumes Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of other legumes in nineteen ninety-one.
Ryegrass Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of ryegrass in nineteen ninety-one.
Weeds Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-One is a real-valued attribute representing the measurement of weeds in nineteen ninety-one.

Similarly, there are measurements for each of these attributes in nineteen ninety-two and nineteen ninety-three.

Strata Combined is an enumerated attribute.
White Clover Measurement in Nineteen Ninety-Four is an enumerated attribute representing the target variable to be predicted.

Tags: Agriculture, Machine Learning, Study One, Study Forty-One 

Keywords: white clover, persistence trials, agriculture, machine learning, strata, cultivars, dry period, hill land.