Filipino Family Income and Expenditure

Tags: Context

The Philippine Statistics Authority spearheads the conduct of the Family Income and Expenditure Survey nationwide. This survey, which is undertaken every three years, aims to provide data on family income and expenditure, including levels of consumption by item of expenditure, sources of income in cash, and related information affecting income and expenditure levels and patterns in the Philippines.

Content

Inside this dataset is a selection of variables from the latest Family Income and Expenditure Survey in the Philippines. It contains over forty thousand observations and sixty variables, primarily comprising household income and expenditures of specific households.

Acknowledgements

The Philippine Statistics Authority is acknowledged for providing the publisher with their raw data.

Inspiration

Socio-economic classification models in the Philippines have been very problematic. In fact, not one socio-economic classification model has been widely accepted. Government bodies use their own models, and private research entities use their own. We all know that household income is the greatest indicator of one's socio-economic classification. Therefore, the publisher would like to find out the following: the best model in predicting household income, the key drivers of household income, and make the model as sparse as possible. Additionally, some exploratory analysis in the data would also be useful.

Features

Total Household Income, Region, Total Food Expenditure, Main Source of Income, Agricultural Household Indicator, Bread and Cereals Expenditure, Total Rice Expenditure, Meat Expenditure, Total Fish and Marine Products Expenditure, Fruit Expenditure, Vegetables Expenditure, Restaurant and Hotels Expenditure, Alcoholic Beverages Expenditure, Tobacco Expenditure, Clothing, Footwear, and Other Wear Expenditure, Housing and Water Expenditure, Imputed House Rental Value, Medical Care Expenditure, Transportation Expenditure, Communication Expenditure, Education Expenditure, Miscellaneous Goods and Services Expenditure, Special Occasions Expenditure, Crop Farming and Gardening Expenses, Total Income from Entrepreneurial Activities, Household Head Sex, Household Head Age, Household Head Marital Status, Household Head Highest Grade Completed, Household Head Job or Business Indicator, Household Head Occupation, Household Head Class of Worker, Type of Household, Total Number of Family Members, Members with Age Less than Five Years Old, Members with Age Five to Seventeen Years Old, Total Number of Family Members Employed, Type of Building/House, Type of Roof, Type of Walls, House Floor Area, House Age, Number of Bedrooms, Tenure Status, Toilet Facilities, Electricity, Main Source of Water Supply

Keywords: Filipino Family Income, Expenditure Survey, Socio-Economic Classification, Household Income, Philippines