Human normal and cancer hepatocytes (cell line HepG2) were treated with seven stimuli that are relevant to hepatocyte physiology. For each applied stimulus, seven selective inhibitors that block the activity of specific molecules were applied independently (that is, only one inhibitor at a time). For each combination of stimulus-inhibitor, the concentration of seventeen intracellular phospho-protein molecules were measured at three time points after stimulation. Additionally, for each combination of stimulus-inhibitor, the extracellular concentration of twenty cytokines released by the cells were measured at three time points after stimulation.

The experimental design is shown schematically in Figure One, where the data for either a phospho-protein or a cytokine data is exemplified. The data is contained in two spreadsheets, one for the phosphorylation data and one for the cytokine release data.

The data is structured according to the following format: in both files, the first column contains the cell type (normal or cancer), the second column specifies the stimulus, the third column lists the inhibitor, and the fourth column contains the time of data acquisition. From column five onwards, the file containing phosphorylation data contains the abundance of the seventeen phospho-proteins in arbitrary fluorescence units and in the order specified. From column five onwards, the file containing cytokine release data contains the abundance of the twenty measured extracellular cytokines in arbitrary fluorescence units and in the order specified.

Useful information regarding measurements includes data integrity and linearity. Significant effort was dedicated to ensuring data integrity. The data are reported as arbitrary fluorescence units in a range between zero and twenty-nine thousand. The upper limit corresponds to the saturation limit of the detector. Experiments were performed in such a way that measurements are as much as possible within the linear range of the detector. In general, data can be considered linear, but there are a few cases where measurements are closer to the upper detection limit, where linearity might have been lost.

Detection limits and repeatability are also important considerations. The coefficient of variation for repeated measurements was found to be approximately eight percent, mostly due to biological error. With the current experimental design, the instrument detector can report data with accuracy as low as three hundred. For example, changes from fifty-five fluorescence units to one hundred ten fluorescence units cannot be considered a two-fold increase because values lie within the noise error of the detector. On the other hand, data from one thousand to two thousand are significant.

Inhibitor effects are also noteworthy. There are cases where inhibitors target molecules whose phosphorylation is being measured. In these cases, the phosphorylation state of the corresponding molecule should be assumed absent and the phosphorylation value should not be used. This known inhibitor effect is more pronounced on allosteric inhibitors. The effects of the inhibitors are indirectly corroborated from the phosphorylation state of their downstream targets.

Additional data includes any prior data already present in the literature, which can be used to develop models of the network as part of a method to predict excluded data.

Data is generously provided by the DREAM Three Challenge.

Features: Cell Type, Stimulus, Inhibitor, Time of Data Acquisition, AKT, ERK Twelve, GSK Three, I kappa B, JNK Twelve, p Thirty Eight, p Seventy S Six, p Ninety RSK, STAT Three, c JUN, CREB, Histone H Three, HSP Twenty Seven, IRS One S, MEK Twelve, p Fifty Three, STAT Six

Keywords: phospho-protein, cytokine, hepatocyte, stimulus, inhibitor, phosphorylation, fluorescence units, data integrity, linearity, detection limits, repeatability, inhibitor effects, network modeling.