The Annual Meetings of the American Statistical Association 

The Annual Meetings of the American Statistical Association will take place August sixteen through nineteen. At this meeting, the Committee on Statistical Graphics plans to sponsor an Exposition of Statistical Graphics Technology. The purpose of this activity is to more fully inform the American Statistical Association membership about the capabilities and uses of computer graphics in statistical work.

Invitation to Participate 

This letter is to invite you to participate in the Exposition. Attached is a set of biomedical data containing two hundred nine observations, one hundred thirty-four for normals and seventy-five for carriers. Each vendor of provider of statistical graphics software participating in the Exposition is to analyze these data using their software and to prepare tabular, graphical and text output illustrating the use of graphics in these analyses and summarizing their conclusions. 

The Tabular and Graphical Materials 

The tabular and graphical materials must be direct computer output from the statistical graphics software; the textual descriptions and summaries need not be. The total display space available to each participant at the meeting will be a standard poster-board, approximately four feet by two and a half feet. All entries will be displayed in one location at the meetings, together with brief written commentary by the committee summarizing the results of this activity.

Biomedical Data 

The following data arose in a study to develop screening methods to identify carriers of a rare genetic disorder. Four measurements were made on blood samples: serum creatine kinase, hemopexin, pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase. One of these, serum creatine kinase, has been used before. The disease is Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. 

Purpose of the Analysis 

The purpose of the analysis is to develop a screening procedure to detect carriers and to describe its effectiveness. Experts in the field have noted that young people tend to have higher measurements. The laboratory which prepared the measurements is worried that there may be a systematic drift over time in their measurement process. These effects should be considered in the analysis. Can graphical displays show the differences between the distributions of carriers and normals?

File Description 

Column Content 
One Observation number sequence number per patient 
Note that there are several samples per patient for some patients. 
Two to eight blank 
Nine to twelve hospital identification number for blood sample 
Thirteen to eighteen blank 
Nineteen to twenty age of patient 
Twenty-one to twenty-six blank 
Twenty-seven to thirty-two date that blood sample was taken mmddyy 
Note that all day entries are zero zero. 
Thirty-three to thirty-nine blank 
Forty to forty-three ml measurement one 
Forty-four to fifty blank 
Fifty-one to fifty-four m two measurement two 
Fifty-five to sixty-one blank 
Sixty-two to sixty-five m three measurement three 
Sixty-six to seventy-two blank 
Seventy-three to seventy-five m four measurement four 

Tags: biomed, mythbusting_1, study_1, study_123, study_15, study_20, study_41, study_52 

Keywords: Biomedical Data, Statistical Graphics, American Statistical Association, Genetic Disorder, Screening Methods, Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.