**Covertype**

Predicting forest cover type from cartographic variables only, without using remotely sensed data. The actual forest cover type for a given observation, which is a thirty by thirty meter cell, was determined from United States Forest Service Region Two Resource Information System data. Independent variables were derived from data originally obtained from United States Geological Survey and United States Forest Service data. The data is in its raw form, not scaled, and contains binary columns of data for qualitative independent variables, including wilderness areas and soil types.

This study area includes four wilderness areas located in the Roosevelt National Forest of northern Colorado. These areas represent forests with minimal human-caused disturbances, so that existing forest cover types are more a result of ecological processes rather than forest management practices. Some background information for these four wilderness areas: Neota probably has the highest mean elevational value of the four wilderness areas. Rawah and Comanche Peak would have a lower mean elevational value, while Cache la Poudre would have the lowest mean elevational value. As for primary major tree species in these areas, Neota would have spruce fir, while Rawah and Comanche Peak would probably have lodgepole pine as their primary species, followed by spruce fir and aspen. Cache la Poudre would tend to have ponderosa pine, douglas fir, and cottonwood willow. The Rawah and Comanche Peak areas would tend to be more typical of the overall dataset than either the Neota or Cache la Poudre, due to their assortment of tree species and range of predictive variable values, including elevation. Cache la Poudre would probably be more unique than the others, due to its relatively low elevation range and species composition.

Attribute Information:
Given is the attribute name, attribute type, the measurement unit, and a brief description. The forest cover type is the classification problem. 

Elevation is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, representing the elevation in meters. 
Aspect is a quantitative attribute measured in azimuth, representing the aspect in degrees azimuth.
Slope is a quantitative attribute measured in degrees, representing the slope in degrees.
Horizontal Distance to Hydrology is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, representing the horizontal distance to the nearest surface water features.
Vertical Distance to Hydrology is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, representing the vertical distance to the nearest surface water features.
Horizontal Distance to Roadways is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, representing the horizontal distance to the nearest roadway.
Hillshade at Nine Am is a quantitative attribute measured on a zero to two fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at nine am during the summer solstice.
Hillshade at Noon is a quantitative attribute measured on a zero to two fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at noon during the summer solstice.
Hillshade at Three Pm is a quantitative attribute measured on a zero to two fifty-five index, representing the hillshade index at three pm during the summer solstice.
Horizontal Distance to Fire Points is a quantitative attribute measured in meters, representing the horizontal distance to the nearest wildfire ignition points.

Wilderness Area is a qualitative attribute with four binary columns, representing the wilderness area designation.
Soil Type is a qualitative attribute with forty binary columns, representing the soil type designation.
Cover Type is an integer attribute with seven types, representing the forest cover type designation.

Tags: study_10, uci

Keywords: forest cover type, cartographic variables, wilderness areas, soil types, forest management practices, ecological processes, tree species, elevation, predictive variables, classification problem.