Name: Acute Inflammations
Tags: study, study, study, study, study

Abstract: The data was created by a medical expert as a data set to test the expert system, which will perform the presumptive diagnosis of two diseases of the urinary system.

Source: UCI

Please cite: Application of rough sets in the presumptive diagnosis of urinary system diseases, Artificial Intelligence and Security in Computing Systems, ACS International Conference Proceedings, Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp.

Data Set Information: The main idea of this data set is to prepare the algorithm of the expert system, which will perform the presumptive diagnosis of two diseases of the urinary system. It will be an example of diagnosing acute inflammations of the urinary bladder and acute nephritises. For better understanding of the problem, let us consider definitions of both diseases given by medics.

Acute inflammation of the urinary bladder is characterized by sudden occurrence of pains in the abdomen region and urination in the form of constant urine pushing, micturition pains, and sometimes lack of urine retention. Body temperature rises, however most often not above C. The excreted urine is turbid and sometimes bloody. With proper treatment, symptoms usually decay within several days. However, there is an inclination to recurrence. In persons with acute inflammation of the urinary bladder, we should expect that the illness may turn into a protracted form.

Acute nephritis of renal pelvis origin occurs considerably more often in women than in men. It begins with sudden fever, which reaches, and sometimes exceeds C. The fever is accompanied by shivers and one or both side lumbar pains, which are sometimes very strong. Symptoms of acute inflammation of the urinary bladder appear very often. Quite frequently there are nausea and vomiting and widespread pains of the whole abdomen.

The data was created by a medical expert as a data set to test the expert system, which will perform the presumptive diagnosis of two diseases of the urinary system. The basis for rules detection was Rough Sets Theory. Each instance represents a potential patient. Each line of the data file starts with a value which indicates the temperature of the patient.

Attribute Information:
Temperature of patient { C C }
Occurrence of nausea { yes, no }
Lumbar pain { yes, no }
Urine pushing (continuous need for urination) { yes, no }
Micturition pains { yes, no }
Burning of urethra, itch, swelling of urethra outlet { yes, no }
Decision: Inflammation of urinary bladder { yes, no }
Decision: Nephritis of renal pelvis origin { yes, no }

Relevant Papers: Application of rough sets in the presumptive diagnosis of urinary system diseases, Artificial Intelligence and Security in Computing Systems, ACS International Conference Proceedings, Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp.

Keywords: urinary system diseases, acute inflammation, expert system, rough sets theory, presumptive diagnosis, urinary bladder, nephritis, medical data