Japanese Vowels

Tags: grouped data, OpenML CC, OpenML, study, time series, uci

This dataset records time series of LPC cepstrum coefficients taken from male speakers. The data was collected for examining a newly developed classifier for multidimensional curves (multidimensional time series). Male speakers uttered two Japanese vowels "ae" successively. For each utterance, linear prediction analysis was applied to obtain a discrete time series with LPC cepstrum coefficients. One utterance by a speaker forms a time series whose length ranges from seven to twenty nine, and each point of a time series has twelve features (coefficients).

Similar data are available for different utterances "ei", "iu", "uo", "oa" in addition to "ae". The total number of time series is six hundred and forty. Two hundred and seventy time series were used for training and three hundred and seventy for testing.

Analysis parameters include a sampling rate of ten kilohertz, frame length of twenty five point six milliseconds, shift length of six point four milliseconds, and degree of LPC coefficients of twelve.

Each line in the data files represents twelve LPC coefficients in increasing order, separated by spaces, corresponding to one analysis frame. Lines are organized into blocks, which are sets of seven to twenty nine lines separated by blank lines, corresponding to a single speech utterance of "ae" with seven to twenty nine frames. Each speaker is represented by a set of consecutive blocks.

In the training file, there are thirty blocks for each speaker. In the test file, speakers have varying numbers of blocks, ranging from twenty four to eighty eight.

The dataset has been used in past research on multidimensional curve classification using passing through regions. Commercial use of the data requires permission from the donor.

Features include speaker, utterance, frame, and twelve coefficient values.

Keywords: Japanese vowels, time series, speech recognition, linear prediction coding, cepstrum coefficients, multidimensional curves, pattern recognition