FOREX EUR/NOK Minute High Tags: finance, forex, forex high, forex minute

Source: Dukascopy Historical Data Feed

Data Description
This dataset contains historical price data of the FOREX EUR/NOK from Dukascopy. Each instance, or row, represents one candlestick of one minute. The dataset spans from January first to December thirteenth and does not include weekends, as the FOREX market is not traded on weekends. The timezone of the feature Timestamp is Europe/Amsterdam.

The class attribute is the direction of the mean of the High Bid and the High Ask of the following minute, relative to the High Bid and the High Ask mean of the current minute. This means the class attribute is True when the mean High price is going up in the following minute, and the class attribute is False when the mean High price is going down or stays the same in the following minute.

Note that this is a hypothetical task, meant for scientific purposes only. Realistic trade strategies can only be applied to predictions on Close attributes, which are also available.

Attributes
The Timestamp attribute represents the time of the current data point in the Europe/Amsterdam timezone. The Bid Open attribute is the bid price at the start of this time interval. The Bid High attribute is the highest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Low attribute is the lowest bid price during this time interval. The Bid Close attribute is the bid price at the end of this time interval. The Bid Volume attribute is the number of times the Bid Price changed within this time interval. The Ask Open attribute is the ask price at the start of this time interval. The Ask High attribute is the highest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Low attribute is the lowest ask price during this time interval. The Ask Close attribute is the ask price at the end of this time interval. The Ask Volume attribute is the number of times the Ask Price changed within this time interval. The Class attribute determines whether the average price will go up during the next interval.

Keywords: FOREX, EUR/NOK, historical data, finance, candlestick, timezone, class attribute, trade strategies.