Context: This dataset is generated after an exploratory analysis of data provided by the Carbon Disclosure Project in the CDP: Unlocking Climate Solutions competition. It contains a compilation of indicators extracted and calculated based on cities' responses to CDP disclosure for the year 2020.

Content: The dataset focuses on Governance, Data Management, and Sustainability Targets, Master Planning, and Climate Hazards and Vulnerability Risk Assessment. It also explores Adaptation Challenges, City-wide Emissions, Emission Reduction, Opportunities, Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Transport, Food Consumption, and Water Security.

Governance: Cities report if they incorporate sustainability goals and targets into their master planning. Climate hazards and vulnerability risk assessment have been undertaken, and the number of reported hazards by organization is counted. The weighted sum of reported hazards and probability is calculated.

Adaptation Challenges: Cities face significant adaptation challenges related to economic, health, education, habitat, infrastructure, social, and environmental issues, as well as governance. The level of adaptation challenges is calculated by summing up the reported significant adaptation challenges.

City-wide Emissions: Cities report if they have a city-wide emissions inventory to report greenhouse gas emissions. The primary protocol, standard, or methodology used to calculate city-wide greenhouse gas emissions is indicated. The evolution of city-wide emissions since the last emissions inventory is reported, and the consumption of city-wide emissions is indicated.

Emission Reduction: Cities report if they have a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target in place at the city-wide level. They also report if they have a climate change mitigation or energy access plan for reducing city-wide greenhouse gas emissions.

Opportunities: Cities collaborate in partnership with businesses on sustainability projects.

Renewable Energy: Cities report if they have a renewable energy or electricity target. The percentage of renewable source mix of electricity consumed in the city is calculated.

Energy Efficiency: Cities report if they have a target to increase energy efficiency.

Transport: The percentage of private motorized transport mode, walking transport mode, public transport mode, cycling transport mode, and other transport mode in city passenger transport is calculated. Cities report if they have a low or zero-emission zone.

Food Consumption: Cities report if they have any policies relating to food consumption.

Water Security: The percentage of the city's population having potable water supply service is calculated. Cities report if they have a publicly available Water Resource Management strategy.

Keywords: Climate Change, Sustainability, City Emissions, Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Transport, Food Consumption, Water Security