Default of Credit Card Clients Dataset 

Tags: Computer Systems, Machine Learning 

Dataset Information 
This dataset contains information on default payments, demographic factors, credit data, history of payment, and bill statements of credit card clients in Taiwan from April to September. 

Content 
There are twenty-five variables in this dataset. 

ID represents the identification number of each client. 
Limit Balance represents the amount of given credit in New Taiwan dollars, which includes individual and family or supplementary credit. 
Sex represents the gender of the client, where male is represented as one and female is represented as two. 
Education represents the level of education, where graduate school is represented as one, university as two, high school as three, others as four, unknown as five, and unknown as six. 
Marriage represents the marital status, where married is represented as one, single as two, and others as three. 
Age represents the age of the client in years. 
Repayment Status in September, August, July, June, May, and April represent the repayment status of the client during these months, where pay duly is represented as negative one, payment delay for one month as one, payment delay for two months as two, and so on until payment delay for nine months and above as nine. 
Bill Amount in September, August, July, June, May, and April represent the amount of the bill statement in these months in New Taiwan dollars. 
Previous Payment Amount in September, August, July, June, May, and April represent the amount of previous payment in these months in New Taiwan dollars. 
Default Payment Next Month represents whether the client will default on their payment next month, where yes is represented as one and no as zero.

Inspiration 
Some ideas for exploration include how the probability of default payment varies by categories of different demographic variables, which variables are the strongest predictors of default payment, and what other insights can be gained from analyzing this dataset.

Acknowledgements 
Any publications based on this dataset should acknowledge the source of the dataset.

Keywords: credit cards, default payments, demographic factors, credit data, payment history, bill statements