Satimage 

Tags: Health, Medicine, Partial Label Ranking 

The database consists of the multi-spectral values of pixels in three-by-three neighborhoods in a satellite image, and the classification associated with the central pixel in each neighborhood. The aim is to predict this classification, given the multi-spectral values. In the sample database, the class of a pixel is coded as a number. 

The Landsat satellite data is one of the many sources of information available for a scene. The interpretation of a scene by integrating spatial data of diverse types and resolutions including multi-spectral and radar data, maps indicating topography, land use, and so forth, is expected to assume significant importance with the onset of an era characterized by integrative approaches to remote sensing. Existing statistical methods are ill-equipped for handling such diverse data types. However, this is not true for Landsat MSS data considered in isolation, as in this sample database. This data satisfies the important requirements of being numerical and at a single resolution, and standard maximum-likelihood classification performs very well. Consequently, for this data, it should be interesting to compare the performance of other methods against the statistical approach.

One frame of Landsat MSS imagery consists of four digital images of the same scene in different spectral bands. Two of these are in the visible region, corresponding approximately to green and red regions of the visible spectrum, and two are in the near-infrared. Each pixel is an eight-bit binary word, with zero corresponding to black and two hundred fifty-five to white. The spatial resolution of a pixel is about eighty meters by eighty meters. Each image contains twenty-three forty pixels by thirty-three eighty pixels. The database is a tiny sub-area of a scene, consisting of eighty-two by one hundred pixels. Each line of data corresponds to a three-by-three square neighborhood of pixels completely contained within the eighty-two by one hundred sub-area. Each line contains the pixel values in the four spectral bands of each of the nine pixels in the three-by-three neighborhood and a number indicating the classification label of the central pixel. The number is a code for the following classes: red soil, cotton crop, grey soil, damp grey soil, soil with vegetation stubble, mixture class, and very damp grey soil. 

The data is given in random order, and certain lines of data have been removed so you cannot reconstruct the original image from this dataset. In each line of data, the four spectral values for the top-left pixel are given first, followed by the four spectral values for the top-middle pixel, and then those for the top-right pixel, and so on, with the pixels read out in sequence left-to-right and top-to-bottom. Thus, the four spectral values for the central pixel are given by the attributes seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, and twenty. If you like, you can use only these four attributes, while ignoring the others. This avoids the problem that arises when a three-by-three neighborhood straddles a boundary.

Has Missing Values? No 

Class labels: red soil, cotton crop, grey soil, damp grey soil, soil with vegetation stubble, mixture class, very damp grey soil 

Keywords: satellite image, multi-spectral values, classification, Landsat MSS, remote sensing, spatial data, radar data, topography, land use.