Name: PBC
Tags: Unknown Source

Please cite: Case number deleted. X treated as the class attribute. As used in research on numeric prediction using instance-based learning with encoding length selection.

The dataset contains observations and variables recorded from the Mayo Clinic trial in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) of the liver conducted between and. PBC patients referred to Mayo Clinic during that interval met eligibility criteria for the randomized placebo controlled trial of the drug D-penicillamine. The first cases in the dataset participated in the randomized trial and contain largely complete data. The additional cases did not participate in the clinical trial but consented to have basic measurements recorded and to be followed for survival. A few cases were lost to follow-up shortly after diagnosis. Missing data items are denoted by a period. At least one space separates each variable in the data file.

Censoring was due to liver transplantation for several subjects. The data are in free format with at least one blank space separating each variable. Variables include days between registration and death or censoring, treatment code, age, sex, presence of ascites, hepatomegaly, spiders, edema, and various blood test results.

The Mayo Clinic conducted a double-blinded randomized trial comparing D-penicillamine with a placebo. Patients met eligibility criteria, and both the treating physician and patient agreed to participate in the randomized trial for many cases. Clinical, biochemical, serologic, and histologic parameters were recorded for the clinical trial patients. The data were analyzed for presentation in the clinical literature, recording disease and survival status.

Primary biliary cirrhosis is a rare but fatal chronic liver disease of unknown cause, with a prevalence of about cases per million population. The primary pathologic event appears to be the destruction of interlobular bile ducts, potentially mediated by immunologic mechanisms. This dataset is significant as controlled clinical trials are challenging to complete for rare diseases, and it represents the largest existing uniformly diagnosed, treated, and followed case series for PBC.

The data present an opportunity to study the natural history of the disease. Despite the immunosuppressive properties of D-penicillamine, no detectable differences were found between the survival time distributions for the treatment and placebo groups. This suggests these groups can be combined to study the association between survival time from randomization and clinical measurements.

In the early to mid-s, successful liver transplant rates increased substantially, becoming an effective therapy for PBC. The Mayo Clinic dataset is therefore one of the last allowing a study of the natural history of PBC in patients treated with only supportive care or its equivalent.

The PBC data can be used to estimate survival distribution, test for differences between groups, and estimate covariate effects via regression models.

Keywords: Primary biliary cirrhosis, Mayo Clinic trial, D-penicillamine, survival analysis, liver disease, clinical data, randomized controlled trial