QSAR-TID-12755 Tags: Machine Learning, MTLQSAR, study_3, Transportation 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 12755. The features represent molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA.

The dataset has thirty rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature. Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The preferred name of the target is Dopamine D5 Receptor, also known as D(1B) Dopamine Receptor, D(5) Dopamine Receptor, and Dopamine D5 Receptor Drd5. It belongs to the species group Rattus Norvegicus and is classified as a single protein, specifically a membrane receptor, family A G protein-coupled receptor, small molecule receptor, and monoamine receptor.

The description of the target highlights its relationship with accessions, particularly P25115. Additionally, it is part of a subset of dopamine receptors.

Go Component annotations include plasma membrane, cilium, membrane, axon, dendrite, brush border membrane, neuronal cell body, dendritic spine, ciliary membrane, non-motile cilium, postsynaptic density membrane, and glutamatergic synapse.

Go Function annotations include dopamine neurotransmitter receptor activity, coupled via Gs, G-protein alpha-subunit binding, G protein-coupled receptor activity, dopamine neurotransmitter receptor activity, protein binding, and dopamine binding.

Go Process annotations encompass various biological processes, including synaptic transmission, response to amphetamine, regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure, signal transduction, G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-activating G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, adenylate cyclase-activating dopamine receptor signaling pathway, dopamine receptor signaling pathway, behavior, mating behavior, associative learning, visual learning, transmission of nerve impulse, negative regulation of cell migration, negative regulation of NAD(P)H oxidase activity, regulation of locomotion, wound healing, response to cocaine, negative regulation of blood pressure, regulation of female receptivity, sensitization, long-term synaptic depression, regulation of biological quality, cellular response to catecholamine stimulus, and adenylate cyclase-activating adrenergic receptor signaling pathway.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, molecular fingerprints, dopamine receptor, G protein-coupled receptor, signal transduction, synaptic transmission.