This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with eleven hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software. The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies.

The dataset Carbolenes is related to the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The dataset MTP two is related to the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The datasets Chang, Cristalli, Depreux, Doherty, Garrat two, Garrat, Heyl, Krystek, Lewis, Penning, Rosowsky, Siddiqi, Stevenson, Strupcz, Svensson, Thompson, Tsutumi, Uejling, Yokoyama one, and Yokoyama two are related to the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The dataset MTP is related to the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling in two thousand five.

The dataset Benzo thirty-two is related to the study published in the European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety-six.

The dataset PHENETYL one is related to the book QSAR Hansch Analysis and Related Approaches published in nineteen ninety-three.

The dataset PAH is related to the study published in the journal Chemometrics and Intelligent Laboratory Systems in nineteen ninety-five.

The dataset PDGFR is related to the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand four.

The dataset Phen is related to the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen seventy-two.

The datasets Topo two one and Y Prop four one are related to the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand three.

The datasets QSAR BR one, QSAR BR two are related to the study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-seven.

The dataset QSAR Tox is related to the study published in the journal Chemosphere in nineteen ninety-eight.

The dataset QSBR RW one is related to the book Biodegradation of Dioxins and Furans published in nineteen ninety-eight.

The dataset QSBR Y two is related to the book Biodegradability Prediction published by Kluwer Academic Publishers.

The dataset QSBR Alks is related to the study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-eight.

The dataset QSFR DH LA is related to the study published in the journal Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships in nineteen ninety-seven.

The datasets QSFSR one and QSFSR two are related to the study published in the journal Protein Engineering in nineteen ninety-eight.

The dataset QSPrCmpX is related to the study published in the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Science in two thousand.

The dataset Selwood is related to the study published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry in nineteen ninety.

Keywords: Drug Design, Machine Learning, Adriana Code, Medicinal Chemistry, QSAR, Biodegradability, Toxicity.