The AAUP Dataset for the ASA Statistical Graphics Section's Data Analysis Exposition contains information on faculty salaries for American colleges and universities. The data may be obtained in either of two formats. One format contains the raw data in comma-delimited fields with a single data line for each school, while the other format has the data arranged in fixed columns with two data lines for each school and a maximum line length of eighty characters.

This dataset is taken from the March-April issue of Academe. The faculty salary data are for the school year. You may wish to consult a copy of the special issue of Academe for more detailed descriptions of the variables.

Variable Descriptions:

The first line of the fixed-column format contains the Federal ID number, college name, state postal code, type, average salary for full professors, average salary for associate professors, average salary for assistant professors, average salary for all ranks, average compensation for full professors, average compensation for associate professors, average compensation for assistant professors, and average compensation for all ranks.

The second line of the fixed-column format contains the number of full professors, number of associate professors, number of assistant professors, number of instructors, and number of faculty for all ranks. Missing values are denoted with an asterisk. All salary and compensation figures are yearly in hundreds of dollars.

To obtain the dataset, send a message to statlib@lib.stat.cmu.edu requesting the AAUP data in either the comma-delimited or fixed-column format.

What's What Among American Colleges and Universities?

This is the subject of the Data Analysis Exposition sponsored by the Statistical Graphics Section of the American Statistical Association. The purpose of the Exposition is to encourage statisticians to demonstrate techniques, especially graphical, for analyzing data and displaying the results of an analysis.

Individuals and groups will work with the same set of data and present their analyses at a special session as part of the annual Joint Statistical Meetings. The datasets are drawn from two sources: U.S. News & World Report's Guide to America's Best Colleges and the AAUP Salary Survey.

The U.S. News data contains information on tuition, room and board costs, SAT or ACT scores, application acceptance rates, graduation rate, student-faculty ratio, spending per student, and a number of other variables for over thirteen hundred schools. The AAUP data includes average salary, overall compensation, and number of faculty broken down by full, associate, and assistant professor ranks.

Two versions of each dataset are provided to accommodate users with different software constraints. The comma-delimited versions contain information for each college on a separate line with values delimited by commas. The fixed-column versions use two or three data lines per school and a maximum line length of eighty characters.

Keywords: AAUP Dataset, Faculty Salaries, American Colleges and Universities, Data Analysis Exposition, Statistical Graphics Section, American Statistical Association, U.S. News & World Report, Guide to America's Best Colleges, AAUP Salary Survey.