QSAR-TID-104260 Dataset Information 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 104260. The data was sourced from the MetaQSAR project in September 2015. 

The dataset consists of seventy-one rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. 

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. 

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include Molecule ChEMBL ID.

Scraped Data Information:

The preferred name of the protein target is Free Fatty Acid Receptor One. It also has synonyms such as Ffar One, G-Protein Coupled Receptor Forty, and others.

The species group of this protein target is Rattus Norvegicus.

The protein target classification is One, Membrane Receptor, Family A G-Protein Coupled Receptor, Small Molecule Receptor, Lipid-Like Ligand Receptor.

Description Relationship Accession is Free Fatty Acid Receptor One Single Protein.

Go Component includes Plasma Membrane and Membrane.

Go Function includes G-Protein Coupled Receptor Activity, GTPase Activator Activity, Fatty Acid Binding, Lipid Binding, and Bioactive Lipid Receptor Activity.

Go Process includes Signal Transduction, G-Protein Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, Phospholipase C-Activating G-Protein Coupled Receptor Signaling Pathway, Positive Regulation of Cytosolic Calcium Ion Concentration, and others.

CanSAR-Target includes Q Eight K Three T Four.

Reactome includes Synthesis, Secretion, and Inactivation of Glucagon-Like Peptide-One, Synthesis, Secretion, and Inactivation of Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide, G Alpha Q Signalling Events, Fatty Acids Bound to GPR Forty Regulate Insulin Secretion, and Free Fatty Acid Receptors.

UniProt includes Q Eight K Three T Four.

InterPro includes GPCR Rhodopsin, GPR Forty-Rel Orph, GPR Forty Recept FA, and GPCR Rhodopsn Seven TM.

Pfam includes Seven TM One.

Keywords: QSAR, MetaQSAR, Free Fatty Acid Receptor, G-Protein Coupled Receptor, Signal Transduction, Lipid Binding, Insulin Secretion, Calcium Ion Transport.