This is one of forty-one drug design datasets. The datasets with one thousand one hundred forty-three features are formed using Adriana Code software (available at www.molecular-networks.com/software/adriana-code). The molecules and outputs are taken from the original studies (listed below). The other datasets are taken exactly from the original studies. The last attribute in each file is the target.

Original studies:
Carbolenes 
MTP Two 
Chang 
Cristalli 
Depreux 
Doherty 
Garrat Two 
Garrat 
Heyl 
Krystek 
Lewis 
Penning 
Rosowsky 
Siddiqi 
Stevenson 
Strupcz 
Svensson 
Thompson 
Tsutumi 
Uejling 
Yokoyama One 
Yokoyama Two 

Benzo Thirty-Two was studied in terms of syntheses, pharmacological evaluation, and molecular modeling of substituted six-alkoxy-imidazo-one-two-b-pyridazines as new ligands for the benzodiazepine receptor. 

PHENETYL One was studied in terms of quantitative structure-activity relationship Hansch analysis and related approaches.

PAH was studied in terms of weighted holistic invariant molecular descriptors. 

PDGF-R was studied in terms of the development of linear, ensemble, and non-linear models for the prediction and interpretation of the biological activity of a set of PDGF-R inhibitors.

Phen was studied in terms of interrelationship of the regression models used for structure-activity analyses.

Topo Two-One and YProp Four-One were studied in terms of predictive toxicology benchmarking molecular descriptors and statistical methods.

QSABR One and QSABR Two were studied in terms of comparison of the QSAR models for toxicity and biodegradability of anilines and phenols.

QSAR Tox was studied in terms of QSAR for acute toxicity of saturated and unsaturated halogenated aliphatic compounds.

QSBR RW One was studied in terms of structure-biodegradability relationships for chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.

QSBR Y Two was studied in terms of a mechanistic approach to deriving QSBR – a case study: dehalogenation of haloaliphatic compounds.

QSBR Alks was studied in terms of mechanism-based quantitative structure-biodegradability relationships for hydrolytic dehalogenation of chloro- and bromo-alkenes.

QSFR DH LA was studied in terms of quantitative structure-function relationships of the single-point mutants of haloalkane dehalogenase.

QSF SR One and QSF SR Two were studied in terms of quantitative structure-function and structure-stability relationships of purposely modified proteins.

QSPR CMPX was studied in terms of stability of aromatic amides with bromide anion.

Selwood was studied in terms of structure-activity relationships of antifilarial antimycin analogues.

Tags: Economics, Geography

Keywords: Drug Design, Adriana Code, Molecular Descriptors, QSAR, Pharmacological Evaluation, Benzodiazepine Receptor, Biological Activity, PDGF-R Inhibitors, Structure-Activity Analyses, Predictive Toxicology, Biodegradability, Halogenated Compounds.