The Fourth Competition, M Four, started on January First, Two Thousand Eighteen and ended on May Thirty-First, Two Thousand Eighteen. The M Four extended and replicated the results of the previous three competitions, using an extended and diverse set of time series to identify the most accurate forecasting method or methods for different types of predictions. It aimed to provide answers on how to improve forecasting accuracy and identify the most appropriate methods for each case. To get precise and compelling answers, the M Four Competition utilized a large number of real-life series, and incorporated all major forecasting methods, including those based on Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, as well as traditional statistical ones.

The time series were downloaded via the R package M Four Comp Two Thousand Eighteen and then loaded with a Python script to obtain the different datasets: Yearly, Quarterly, Monthly, Weekly, Daily, Hourly. The data in R already gives us some kind of date as the index for the time series. There are five columns: Series Identifier, Category, Value, Date, and Time Step. The Value column represents the value of the time series at a specific Time Step. The Date column represents the reconstructed date of the time series in the format Year-Month-Day. Note that the participants did not have access to the date of the time series during the competition. Besides, some dates are ambiguous due to the representation of only two digits for the year, which could represent different years.

Preprocessing involved transforming the original index, which were the number of days since the Unix epoch, January First, Nineteen Seventy, into the Date column. Additionally, some series were fixed by offsetting the whole series by one hundred years until the maximum year was less than or equal to Two Thousand Eighteen. The Series Identifier and Category columns were defined as category, the Date column was casted to string, and the Time Step column was casted to integer.

The required number of forecast values to be forecasted for each time series, for the Daily dataset, was always fourteen. Therefore, if one wants to evaluate their model to be compared with other models from the original competition, the last fourteen values of each time series are considered the test dataset.

Features: Value, Series Identifier, Category, Date

Keywords: Time Series Forecasting, M Four Competition, Daily Data, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistical Methods