User Knowledge Modeling Data Set

Tags: mf less than, study, study, study, study

Source: UCI

Please cite: Developing intuitive knowledge classifier and modeling of users' domain dependent data in web, Knowledge Based Systems.

Title: User Knowledge Modeling Data Set

Abstract: This is a real dataset concerning students' knowledge status regarding the subject of Electrical DC Machines. The dataset was obtained from a Ph.D. Thesis.

Source:
Institution: Faculty of Technology, Department of Software Engineering, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey
Institution: Faculty of Technology, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey
Institution: Faculty of Technology, Department of Computer Engineering, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey
Donor: Undergraduate students of Department of Electrical Education of Gazi University in the semester
Date: October

Data Set Information: The users' knowledge classes were classified by the authors using an intuitive knowledge classifier (a hybrid ML technique of k-NN and meta-heuristic exploring methods) and k-nearest neighbor algorithm. For more details on how the users' data was collected and evaluated by the user modeling server, please refer to the article: Developing intuitive knowledge classifier and modeling of users' domain dependent data in web, Knowledge Based Systems.

Attribute Information:
STG (The degree of study time for goal object materials), (input value)
SCG (The degree of repetition number of user for goal object materials) (input value)
STR (The degree of study time of user for related objects with goal object) (input value)
LPR (The exam performance of user for related objects with goal object) (input value)
PEG (The exam performance of user for goal objects) (input value)
UNS (The knowledge level of user) (target value)

Relevant Papers:
Developing intuitive knowledge classifier and modeling of users' domain dependent data in web, Knowledge Based Systems.
Designing and Application of Web-Based Adaptive Intelligent Education System. Gazi University Ph.D. Thesis, Turkey.

Features: V, V, V, V, V, Class

Keywords: user knowledge modeling, electrical DC machines, intuitive knowledge classifier, k-nearest neighbor, adaptive intelligent education system