Ricci vs DeStefano Tags: DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT

The dataset contains the oral, written, and combined test scores for the New Haven Fire Department promotion exams. The race and position for each test taker are also provided. 

SOURCES

The data was obtained from the district court's decision, the briefs, and appendices to them.

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS

The dataset includes the following variables: race, which is categorized as white, Hispanic, or black; position, which is either captain or lieutenant; oral, which represents the oral exam score; written, which represents the written exam score; and combine, which is the weighted total score, with sixty percent written and forty percent oral. 

STORY BEHIND THE DATA

In the winter of two thousand three, the New Haven Fire Department administered oral and written exams for promotion to lieutenant and captain. Under the contract between the City of New Haven and the firefighter's union, the written exam received a weight of sixty percent and the oral exam received a weight of forty percent. Applicants with a total score of seventy percent or above passed the exam and became eligible for promotion. A total of firefighters took the exam, with seventy-seven taking the lieutenant exam and forty-one taking the captain exam. During the time of the exams, there were eight lieutenant and seven captain positions available. The City Charter of New Haven specifies that when promotions are made, the Department must select them from the top scorers. Consequently, the top scorers and top scorers are eligible for potential promotion. The City of New Haven decided not to certify the exam and promoted no one, because an insufficient number of minorities would receive a promotion to an existing position. 

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES

The dataset can be used for various statistical analyses, including one-way analysis of variance on the equality of average test scores for the three races; two-way analysis of variance for equality of test scores for race and position; chi-square test on the equality of pass rates for the three races; and Fisher-Freeman-Halton test on the equality of the potential promotion rates. Additionally, instructors can combine blacks and Hispanics as minority and perform further analyses, such as two-sample t-test on equality of average test scores for majority versus minority; chi-square test on the equality of pass rates for majority versus minority; and Fisher's exact test on equality of the potential promotion rates for majority versus minority.

Keywords: New Haven Fire Department, promotion exams, race, position, test scores, statistical analysis.