Vertebra Column
Tags: study, study, study

Dataset Title: Vertebra Column - Two Classes

Abstract: This dataset contains values for six biomechanical features used to classify orthopedic patients into three classes (normal, disk hernia, or spondylolisthesis) or two classes (normal or abnormal).

Source: Department of Teleinformatics Engineering, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil, and Hospital Monte Klinikum, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.

Data Set Information: This biomedical dataset was built during a medical residence period in the Group of Applied Research in Orthopedics (GARO) of the Centre Médico-Chirurgical de Réadaptation des Massues, Lyon, France. The data have been organized into two different but related classification tasks. The first task involves classifying patients as belonging to one of three categories: Normal, Disk Hernia, or Spondylolisthesis. For the second task, the categories Disk Hernia and Spondylolisthesis were combined into a single category labeled as 'abnormal'. Thus, the second task consists of classifying patients as belonging to one of two categories: Normal or Abnormal. Files are also provided for use within the WEKA environment.

Attribute Information: Each patient in the dataset is represented by six biomechanical attributes derived from the shape and orientation of the pelvis and lumbar spine, in the following order: pelvic incidence, pelvic tilt, lumbar lordosis angle, sacral slope, pelvic radius, and grade of spondylolisthesis. The following convention is used for the class labels: DH (Disk Hernia), Spondylolisthesis (SL), Normal (NO), and Abnormal (AB).

Relevant Papers:
- "Analysis of the sagittal balance of the spine and pelvis using shape and orientation parameters", Journal of Spinal Disorders & Techniques.
- "On the Application of Ensembles of Classifiers to the Diagnosis of Pathologies of the Vertebral Column: A Comparative Analysis", IEEE Latin America Transactions.
- "Diagnostic of Pathology on the Vertebral Column with Embedded Reject Option", Proceedings of the Iberian Conference on Pattern Recognition and Image Analysis, Lecture Notes on Computer Science.

Features: pelvic incidence, pelvic tilt, lumbar lordosis angle, sacral slope, pelvic radius, grade of spondylolisthesis, Class

Keywords: vertebra column, orthopedic classification, biomechanical features, spinal disorders, medical diagnosis, machine learning, data analysis