QSAR-TID-43 Dataset 

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID forty-three. 

The features represent FCFP six one hundred twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. 

Generating fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Features include molecule ChEMBL ID and median pXC fifty.

The dataset has one thousand five hundred seventy-seven rows and one thousand twenty-six features including IDs and class feature.

The dataset was obtained from the MetaQSAR project in September two thousand fifteen.

This dataset should be cited.

Beta-two Adrenergic Receptor 

The beta-two adrenergic receptor is a single protein. Its preferred name is beta-two adrenergic receptor. Its synonyms include ADRB two, ADRB two R, B two AR, beta-two adrenergic receptor, and beta-two adrenoceptor. It belongs to the species group of no protein target classification one, membrane receptor, family A G protein-coupled receptor, small molecule receptor, family A GPCR, monoamine receptor, and adrenergic receptor. 

The beta-two adrenergic receptor is targeted by compounds including reproterol, bambuterol, levobunolol, carmoterol, and pirbuterol. 

It plays a role in various biological processes including regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure by norepinephrine-epinephrine, diet induced thermogenesis, norepinephrine-epinephrine mediated vasodilation involved in regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure, and regulation of sodium ion transport. 

It is also involved in desensitization of G protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway by arrestin, transcription by RNA polymerase two, receptor-mediated endocytosis, smooth muscle contraction, and regulation of smooth muscle contraction. 

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, MTLQSAR, social media, study three, beta-two adrenergic receptor, G protein-coupled receptor, small molecule receptor, adrenergic receptor, Monoamine receptor.