QSAR-TID-12868 Tags: MTLQSAR, study_3

This dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Matrix Metalloproteinase 12, and it has nineteen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

The dataset contains QSAR data from ChEMBL version seventeen showing activity values of several compounds on drug target Matrix Metalloproteinase 12. Matrix Metalloproteinase 12 is a single protein, also known as Macrophage Metalloelastase, Matrix Metalloproteinase Twelve, Mme, and Mmel. It belongs to the species Mus musculus and is classified as an enzyme, protease, metallo protease, metallo protease MAM clan, and metallo protease M10A subfamily.

The dataset has nineteen rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature: Molecule ChEMBL ID and Median PXc50. The features represent FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints which were generated from SMILES strings. They were obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. Generating Fingerprints does not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

Matrix Metalloproteinase 12 is involved in various biological processes, including negative regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, proteolysis, protein import into nucleus, positive regulation of gene expression, extracellular matrix organization, collagen catabolic process, and wound healing, spreading of epidermal cells. It is also involved in the regulation of defense response to virus by host, positive regulation of epithelial cell proliferation involved in wound healing, elastin catabolic process, and negative regulation of type I interferon-mediated signaling pathway.

Keywords: Matrix Metalloproteinase 12, QSAR data, FCFP 1024bit Molecular Fingerprints, SMILES strings, Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA, biological processes, wound healing, defense response to virus.