COVID-19 Stats and Mobility Trends

Tags: Astronomy, Machine Learning

This dataset aims to provide valuable insights into the impact of policies implemented to combat COVID-19, evaluating the changes in community activities and their correlation with the reduction of confirmed COVID-19 cases.

The reports chart movement trends, compared to an expected baseline, over time across one hundred thirty-three countries, as well as providing various statistics about each country that could help explain the evolution of the disease.

Content:

Grocery and Pharmacy Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places like grocery markets, food warehouses, farmers' markets, specialty food shops, drug stores, and pharmacies.

Parks Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places like national parks, public beaches, marinas, dog parks, plazas, and public gardens.

Residential Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places of residence.

Retail and Recreation Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places like restaurants, cafes, shopping centers, theme parks, museums, libraries, and movie theaters.

Transit Stations Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places like public transport hubs such as subway, bus, and train stations.

Workplaces Mobility Trends: This section focuses on mobility trends for places of work.

Total Cases: This statistic represents the total number of people infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

Fatalities: This statistic represents the total number of deaths caused by COVID-19.

Government Response Stringency Index: This additive score combines nine indicators of government response to COVID-19, including school closures, workplace closures, cancellation of public events, public information campaigns, stay-at-home policies, restrictions on internal movement, international travel controls, testing policy, and contact tracing.

COVID-19 Testing: This statistic represents the total number of tests performed.

Total Vaccinations: This statistic represents the total number of vaccine shots administered.

Total People Vaccinated: This statistic represents the total number of people who have received at least one vaccine shot.

Total People Fully Vaccinated: This statistic represents the total number of people who have completed the full vaccination regimen, which may require multiple shots depending on the vaccine.

Population: This statistic represents the total number of inhabitants in a given country.

Population Density per Square Kilometer: This statistic represents the number of human inhabitants per square kilometer.

Health System Index: This overall performance index evaluates the health system of a country.

Human Development Index: This summary index is based on life expectancy at birth, expected years of schooling for children, mean years of schooling for adults, and Gross National Income per capita.

Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per Capita Based on Purchasing Power Parity (PPP): This statistic takes into account the relative cost of local goods, services, and inflation rates of a country, rather than using international market exchange rates, which may distort the real differences in per capita income.

Elderly Population Percentage: This statistic represents the percentage of the population above sixty-five years old.

References:

Bing COVID-19 Data
COVID-19 Community Mobility Report
COVID-19: Government Response Stringency Index
Coronavirus (COVID-19) Testing
Coronavirus (COVID-19) Vaccination
List of Countries and Dependencies by Population
List of Countries and Dependencies by Population Density
List of Countries by Human Development Index
Measuring Overall Health System Performance
List of Countries by GDP (PPP) per Capita
List of Countries by Age Structure (65+)

Keywords: COVID-19, mobility trends, government response, vaccination, testing, demographics, economics, health system performance.