U.S. Pollution Data
Tags: Context

This dataset deals with pollution in the United States. Pollution in the United States has been well documented by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, but it is a pain to download all the data and arrange them in a format that interests data scientists. Hence, I gathered four major pollutants - nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and ozone - for every day from two thousand to two thousand sixteen and placed them neatly in a comma-separated values file.

Content
There is a total of twenty-eight fields. The four pollutants each has five specific columns. Observations totaled to over a million. This kernel provides a good introduction to this dataset! For observations on specific columns, visit the Column Metadata on the Data tab.

Acknowledgements
All the data is scraped from the database of the United States Environmental Protection Agency: https://aqsdr1.epa.gov/aqsweb/aqstmp/airdata/download_files.html

Inspiration
I did a related project with some friends in college, and decided to open source our dataset so that data scientists don't need to re-scrape the United States Environmental Protection Agency site for historical pollution data.

Features: State Code, County Code, Site Number, Address, State, County, City, Date Local, Nitrogen Dioxide Units, Nitrogen Dioxide Mean, Nitrogen Dioxide First Maximum Value, Nitrogen Dioxide First Maximum Hour, Nitrogen Dioxide Air Quality Index, Ozone Units, Ozone Mean, Ozone First Maximum Value, Ozone First Maximum Hour, Ozone Air Quality Index, Sulphur Dioxide Units, Sulphur Dioxide Mean, Sulphur Dioxide First Maximum Value, Sulphur Dioxide First Maximum Hour, Sulphur Dioxide Air Quality Index, Carbon Monoxide Units, Carbon Monoxide Mean, Carbon Monoxide First Maximum Value, Carbon Monoxide First Maximum Hour, Carbon Monoxide Air Quality Index

Keywords: United States, pollution, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone, Environmental Protection Agency, air quality index.