The QSAR-TID-101191 dataset contains QSAR data showing activity values of several compounds on drug target TID: 101191. This dataset has seventy-four rows and one thousand twenty-six features, including IDs and class feature.

The features represent FCFP six one thousand twenty-four bit molecular fingerprints, which were generated from SMILES strings. These molecular fingerprints do not usually require missing value imputation as all bits are generated.

This dataset was obtained using the Pipeline Pilot program, Dassault Systèmes BIOVIA. The MetaQSAR project was used to generate this dataset in September two thousand fifteen.

This dataset contains information about the serine-threonine protein kinase ULK two, also known as unc-fifty-one-like kinase two. It is a single protein and its preferred name is serine-threonine protein kinase ULK two. Its synonyms include KIAA zero six two three, serine-threonine protein kinase ULK two, and unc-fifty-one-like kinase two.

The organism associated with this dataset is homo sapiens, and its species group is no protein target classification. Its enzyme-kinase-protein kinase-other protein kinase group classification is other protein kinase ULK family.

The description of this protein is related to phagophore assembly site, cytoplasm, autophagosome, cytosol, membrane, cytoplasmic vesicle membrane, and cytoplasmic vesicle. Its expression atlas shows that it is associated with one protein.

Its component ontology includes phagophore assembly site, cytoplasm, autophagosome, cytosol, membrane, cytoplasmic vesicle membrane, and cytoplasmic vesicle. Its function ontology includes nucleotide binding, protein kinase activity, protein serine-threonine kinase activity, protein binding, ATP binding, kinase activity, transferase activity, and protein serine kinase activity.

Its process ontology includes autophagosome assembly, autophagy of mitochondrion, protein phosphorylation, autophagy, signal transduction, nervous system development, axonogenesis, positive regulation of autophagy, phosphorylation, peptidyl-serine phosphorylation, piecemeal microautophagy of the nucleus, response to starvation, late nucleophagy, protein autophosphorylation, collateral sprouting, negative regulation of collateral sprouting, and axon extension.

Keywords: QSAR, machine learning, MTLQSAR, study three, MetaQSAR, serine-threonine protein kinase ULK two, homo sapiens, protein kinase activity, autophagy.